Glad they mentioned/included this bit:

"Certain other fish, such as some sharks and tuna, have whats known as regional endothermy, or limited warm-bloodedness. It allows them to stay active in colder depths, as well as shallower waters. But the fully warm-blooded opah are unlike all other fish, at least so far as we know it."  
This kinda shows how little we know about the oceans, this fish has been known / eaten for a long time. We have to dress our tuna immediately or they basically cook themselves on the deck.

The Allisons are the worst.  Those things are like a hundred degrees when they come out of the water.   I'm assuming the core temp of tunas, especially large ones, will rise when they swim especially hard - like when hooked. That's why the meat from a tuna caught via sport fishing won't be as good as one caught commercially for eating. Huh! TIL. Do the fish actually literally cook if not put on ice? 100 degrees seems like it could be hot enough to denature some proteins.  I'm not positive about the temperatures, but I am just familiar that when the fish fights for a very long time, it does reduce the quality of the meat.  I am not sure if that is mitigated by putting it on ice directly, it probably doesn't in cases where fisherman fight the fish for a long time. A lot if that also comes from the stress hormones released during the fight. You can always tell the difference between a fish that was brought in quick and killed vs one that fought for awhile  so what would the effect be on the meat if the fish was released? would it eventually regain its quality or does that rise in temperature from the fight permanently ruin the quality? I would assume that it would regain it's quality after it is able to rest and recover. Similar reason why gun hunting yields higher quality meat than bow hunting. That's supposedly because of the build up of lactic acid in their muscles lowers the quality not because they are cooking themselves from over heating. Still I'm pretty sure it's just a myth that it effects the taste of the fish. But yes you are supposed to immediate ice a tuna or else it starts cooking when the temperature outside is hot. Burning a lot of ATP which =energy=heat=temperature [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Muscle contractions always create heat, it's just that in true warm blooded animals, we use brown adipose tissue (a modified version of muscle) to create heat even in the absence of muscle contractions. If that can't keep up, you shiver using your muscles! Also, many pythons will shiver to keep their eggs warm, acting somewhat warm-blooded. Also remember that dinosaurs/birds also independently developed warm bloodedness, so I'm not sure that the mechanism works the same way in them.  It's actually just a normal type of body fat. Not muscle.  That was the old way of thinking (although I'd argue with what you mean by 'normal'). A quick search didn't lead me to the original article from ~4-5 years ago where they discovered it was derived from muscle tissue, but this reference will suffice: http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0092608 I don't know man, I feel like I should be talking to a whale biologist about this one.  You're just mean :(
 &gt;Allisons

Wow. I've only heard them by that name once before by an old-timer fisherman from San Diego. I didn't know that name was still used. Cool.

 What are they actually? Thunnus albacares.  Yellowfin or albacore tuna. Another reason why scientific names are great. Wait is it describing yellowfin or albacore? Or is it confusingly describing *both* species? Yes.
My understanding at least, is that many fisherman almost 100 years ago had no idea about species much less genus and applied names like that to many different types of tuna they landed. I suspect you often applied the name of the more expensive fish, as well. Here's the thing. You said a yellowfin is an albacore... I've always heard it in reference to larger yellowfins.   They are like the least desirable tuna around here.   Big eye being the most.  Albacore is *Thunnus alalunga* Yellowfin.
 [Yellowfin tuna were subsequently discovered by sport fishermen in Bermuda, the Bahamas, Hawaii, and many other parts of their range. Larger adult fish which had developed distinctively long sickle fins were initially thought to be a different species and were known as Allison tuna (a name first given by the then curator of the Bermuda Aquarium, Louis Mowbray, in 1920).](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yellowfin_tuna#Sport_fishing) Haha I'm a fish now :D [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Why is there not more research/exploration being done in our own oceans? Is it a lack of interest or we know pretty much everything and it's boring?  Research is driven by where the money is at.  That and the exceptional difficulty involved in exploration.  I'm an occasional scuba diver, so my math may be off but I believe at 30ft under water you're experiencing TWO atmosphere's of pressure (one at normal sea level, one at underwater).  At sixty feet you're under three atmospheres of pressure.  Now imagine the kind of pressure a vessel would be under at the bottom of the ocean.  At the deepest point of the ocean you're experiencing something like 1,4000 atmospheres of pressure.  Creating a vehicle capable of withstanding those forces isn't cheap...and the people that go down in them are God damn crazy (by my cowardly standards).

I've heard it said that comparatively, space ships are quite simple when put up against deep water exploration vessels. They don't need to worry about atmospheric pressure so the difficulty lies in getting them up into space and then life support systems.  Alternatively deep water vessels need to worry about getting down to depth, surviving the metal crushing pressure, and life systems.     So since the atmosphere of Venus is 90 atmospheres, does that mean that once we develop something that can explore the ocean, we can use that same technology to eventually explore Venus's surface?  The surface of Venus is also very, very hot, like lead-melting hot. Also staggeringly acidic. So whatever we put down there needs to resist being burned/melted by acid, burned/melted by sheer heat, and all the crushing power of dozens of atmospheres. The problem with Venus isn't the pressure. We can deal with the pressure just fine, 90 atmospheres is a lot, but we can build things that withstand a lot more.

The problem is the heat. Venus has a surface temperature around 460 celsius. This easily cooks any electronics you put on your spacecraft. So you need to isolate your spacecraft to prevent the electronics from melting. But electronics produce heat themselves as well and there's nowhere to lose that heat since the outside is even hotter. So spaceships on the surface of venus are limited by their thermal mass. Since thermal mass scales with actual mass and spaceflight is all about minimizing mass, our probes don't last long.

Longest we had a probe on the surface was the russian Vega 2 probe, which lasted about an hour. If you want longer duration missions you need some elaborate refrigeration system. This refridgeration system would draw a lot of power, so you need a big powersource. And this big powersource doesn't really work on Venus because almost all our powersources run on temperature gradients. You can see where this is going. Long term exploration of Venus' surface requires a hideously big and complicated machine. This is also why manned exploration of the surface is completely out of the question for the next few centuries. Just to add the awesome pictures the probes took: http://i.imgur.com/lh4a46c.jpg That's on Venus? We have pictures of the surface of Venus?! How have I not heard of this?!   Yup, we have surface pictures of just 5 major bodies in the solar system.

[Earth(obviously)](http://cdn1.buuteeq.com/upload/12427/sunset-at-sunset-beach-2010-21.jpg.1140x481_default.jpg)

[The Moon](http://www.hq.nasa.gov/office/pao/History/alsj/a17/AS17-146-22345HR.jpg)

[Mars](http://www.extremetech.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/Sol170_176_Mastcam34_m_postcard_m.jpg)

[Venus](http://lostlab.ru/forum/index.php?app=core&amp;module=attach&amp;section=attach&amp;attach_rel_module=post&amp;attach_id=3180)

and [Titan (A moon of Saturn)](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/70/Huygens_surface_color_sr.jpg).

We also have surface images of a few asteroids and 1 comet. It was a Soviet accomplishment. that's commie photography! it don't matter!

jokes aside, I think that might actually be a legit reason why it's so low profile. the USSR was the only nation to successfully land probes on venus, and the equipment barely survived long enough to send these pics. I think they lasted about 30 minutes. I doubt much scientific data could be collected in that time, so it might not be among the most scientifically relevant missions to venus I remember when this was on the front page. Top comment talked about how the camera lens that was designed to fall off on landing were always finnicky, and that's what you see on the ground in the right picture. In left, you can see one of the rare cases in which it *did* work, but it landed exactly where the instrument that analyzes the ground hits. First off you're asking the wrong person.  I'm a NAUI certified diver of the lowest level.  The deepest I've gone on scuba gear was 60 feet, and that was 20 ft below my certification level.  My experience with submersibles is zilch, never been in one.  I do know that we have vessels capable of diving to incredible depths.  I believe James Cameron (movie director) went down into the Mariana Trench, which is the deepest (or damn close) spot in the ocean.  

However life support is a huge issue, at that depth you have limited time to spend looking around.  You have to keep in mind that you still have to ascend 20,000 feet of ocean, and you can't do that quickly.  So most of your air supply is spent on the descent and ascent, what little remains allows you to explore at the desired depth.

As someone who's space expertise begins and ends at space camp in 5th grade....we can get a ship to Venus.  I believe we have sent unmaned vessels already.  The issue is in getting a manned spacecraft there.  Again the biggest issue is life support, you need to supply a steady amount of oxygen (obviously) to keep a human being alive.  

The next constraint would be fuel to get there.  It takes a lot of fuel to move and control a spacecraft quickly.  Which is a necessity if a human being is on board, because the longer the trip takes the more oxygen, food and water need to be supplied.  

If you remove the human being from the ship then you can use an engine like the Voyager spacecraft did.  Which is a nuclear engine that produces very little thrust, but has a long life time.  I believe one of the Voyager craft is now reaching the edge of our solar system.  Which is a crazy distance to travel, it's absolutely amazing the distance it has traveled...however it's taken forty years because it's moving so slow across such great distances.

Personally I think if we're going to make long distance manned missions a possibility we need to accept they're going to be a one way trip.  I'm confident we could get a person to Mars.  We could land them on Mars.  They could survive for awhile and transmit back observations and data...but they would die there.  Getting them back is currently unrealistic.   However there are more than enough trained people who are willing to make that journey, they've stated as such.  I'm personally for it, as morbid as it is to send a volunteer to their certain death it would advance our scientific capabilities.  

I'm sure there's a space subreddit out there that could explain this better than I can.  I'm really not all that knowledgable. Building anything for marine exploration is hard.  You have to deal with high pressures and the corrosive nature of salt water.  Plus, visibility is limited as is the ability to bring back samples.

Satellites from space have given us amazing abilities to map the sea floor.  But getting deep and learning everything that's there?  That's really expensive and hard. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [Link to the study.](http://www.sciencemag.org/content/348/6236/786) [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] 41F difference seems pretty large, no? Why do they call it a drop in the bucket? The journalist writing it fucked up. [Here's the raw data from the article.](http://i.imgur.com/3PvG3uP.png) The journalist saw the number 4.81.2 in the middle column (temperature elevation above ambient). Then typed into google "4.8 C in F" and got 40.64, which rounds to 41.

Now, while 4.8 C is indeed 41 degrees F, a difference of 4.8 C is only a difference of 8.64 degrees F. Correct. The journalist should have converted first then did their math instead of doing the difference then converting that value. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I've done this before upon which immediately realizing my mistake when the number made no sense. I'm not sure how to phrase it to tell me how much a difference of 4.8c would be.  Just in case anybody doesn't know, warm-blooded and cold-blooded are now defunct terms in biology. This is because "cold-blooded" animals can actually have very hot blood e.g. lizards in the desert, and "warm-blooded" animals can actually have relatively cold blood e.g. bats during torpor. The terms I am aware of are homeotherm (maintains a steady body temperature e.g. humans) and poikilotherms (body temperature fluctuates with ambient temperature). It seems endotherm and ectotherm are two other terms that can be used, those being animals that generate their own internal heat and those that don't respectively. As far as I can tell endotherm, homeotherm and warm-blooded are synonymous, as are ectotherm, poikilotherm and cold-blooded. There may be subtleties that I am not aware of that distinguish endotherm from homeotherm etc. Homeotherm/Poikilotherm deal with whether or not temp fluctuates.

Endo/ectotherm deals with whether you generate heat or conform to environment.

My gen bio book had a 4 quadrant grid with homeo/poik on one axis and endo/ecto on the other axis with examples of organisms that fit in each of the four quadrants.

It is possible to be homeothermic ectotherm for example if you need to maintain a stable body temp but you do so by regulating it with the environment. Some marine fish are like this I think.

It's also possible to be poikilothermic endotherm for certain mole rats I think whose body temps vary but they still can produce heat internally.

I forget all the example, but there are organisms that fit into each category, although you're generally right that most homeo are endo and most poikilo are ecto.  Glad I saw this mentioned. The terms aren't mutually exclusive Endotherm and ectotherm are the terms I learned in highschool. Not the most reputable but there it is.  I did, too. I had an excellent teacher only a year out of college, so I trust that she knew what she was talking about and it was up-to-date information. Well that depends on when you learned this. If it was last year, true, if it was the 80s then...  Yes!  And my friends who studied physics and Chem completely disagree.  Due to endothermic and exothermic reactions? Totally! An endothermic animal is so because of exothermic reactions within their bodies. That they then gave off heat did not make the animal an exotherm. We agreed to disagree about that last bit.  Exothermic and endothermic reactions happen in (literally?) every organism.  For reactions, it's what the reaction does with the heat. For animals, it's where the animal's body heat comes from. This is like the argument about work being done on a balloon that's being inflated.   Undergrad biology student here. We use endo and ectotherm too. Just have to be careful not to confuse it with endo and ectoderm. 

 Bio grad here. Endo and ectotherm are the terms we learned.  Did anyone ever think that being cold-blooded meant that the animal must always be literally cold though?

I always figured that these terms were used because they are easier to remember for children and laymen than ectotherm and endotherm. I always though they were named after how the temperature stayed when it got cold.  If they were warm-blooded, the blood stayed warm. If they were cold-blooded, the blood got cold. That's exactly what it means. It's not inaccurate so much as it's a colloquialism. Not scientific, but fine in common usage. For me it was always that warm blooded could heat their own blood, while cold blooded needed to capture heat from other sources.
 I wasn't aware anyone thought otherwise. I'm surprised to even see people commenting on this. :/ Yeah, I've been using it to refer to temperature regulation or lack there of since watching the magic school bus as a kid When I was taught it they used the term cold and warm blooded, and specifically said it didn't have to do with the actual temperature of the blood, just whether the being controlled their body temperature or not. The funny thing is that other languages ~~are~~ use the terms cold/warm blooded for horses (temperament instead of temperature).

On the other hand for the longest time the "literally cold" part was reasonably true.
It basically only deviates from human experience when the ambient temperature plus sunlight actually makes it hotter than 37C. Lower than that and cutting a poikitherm would have felt "just wet" or cold (to us), while a homeotherms blood would feel distinctly warm.
Even if people were reasonably  scientific about it, they'd probably collect the species and dissect it later, probably not in the burning sun. Horses are hot/warm/cold-blooded in English, too. :) Humans can pretty often be described as hot/cold-blooded as well. I don't think many people would use warm-blooded except as the temperature control term. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Though it's a colloquialism, many biologist use the terms when discussing informally. I don't think the terms are "defunct", they just aren't used in scientific literature.  But they are used frequently by biologist doing their work.  Endotherm means an organism can raise its body temperature through some mechanism of generating heat.

Homeotherm means an organism maintains its body temperature at a constant level through some mechanism (which may or may not involve generating heat internally).  

They are different.  Practically, you can think of endotherm as weakly homeothermic, but there may be exceptions.   I took mammalian physiology this semester, and what we learned is that endotherm/ectotherm and homeotherm/pokilotherm are different classifications. For example, there can be homeothermic endotherms, such as humans, whose body heat is produced by metabolism and stays relatively constant. Poikilothermic ectotherms are those that we know as "cold-blooded" like lizards who have to sun themselves on a rock. However, there can also be poikilothermic endotherms, like bats which can go into torpor. Homeothermic ectotherms also exist, but we didn't talk about any examples in class.

Source: doing this college thing.  I believe now there are four terms used: homeotherm, heterotherm, endotherm, and poikilotherm.  The first two refer to whether or not they maintain a constant body temperature.  The second two refer to how they heat their body.  So, humans are homeothermic endotherms.  We maintain a constant temperature from our metabolism.  But, things that enter torpor or camels (who can let their body temperatures rise up to something like 140 F without frying their brains) could be considered heterothermic endotherms.  I remember an article a while back making the hypothesis that some dinosaurs were "inertial hometherms" because they were so big that, even though they weren't endothermic, they could maintain a constant body temperature just through the huge difference in their volume to surface area. I learned the term "gigantothermy" to describe what you said about dinosaurs, but it's main reference where it was observed was giant tortoises.  Or leatherback sea turtles. &gt; The terms I am aware of are homeotherm (maintains a steady body temperature e.g. humans) and poikilotherms (body temperature fluctuates with ambient temperature)

These are the meanings of cold and warmblooded I was taught in middle school biology (~10 years ago), rather than the naive "obvious" definitions.
 Well, poikilotherm literally means "varied heat," as opposed to homeotherms which maintain a constant temperature. However, a cold-blooded organism in an environment with a consistent temperature wouldn't experience much variation in body heat, making it a homeotherm.

I guess warm- and cold-blooded and endo- and ectotherm refer to whether the organism produces heat or acquires it, while homeo- and poikilotherm refer to the stability or instability of its temperature. I can't think of any endothermic organism that would count as a poikilotherm, though.

EDIT: [I stand corrected](http://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/35z0uo/first_warmblooded_fish_identified/cr9kria).  Huh? The correct terminology is what I learned in school when I was like 8, 21 years ago. &gt; Wegner noticed that the tissue had blood vessels to carry warm blood into the fishs gills. The blood vessels then wound around those carrying cold blood back to the body core after absorbing oxygen from water. Engineers call this a counter-current heat exchange.

Isn't this just a [rete mirabile](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rete_mirabile)  the same thing that tuna use to maintain high body temperature to sustain their fast swimming? You're completely correct. In the article they probably just made it easier to understand for the public. In the actual paper they call it a rete. 

Edit: I should mention that this finding is still cool because to date no one has discovered a rete in the gills of fish before. I wonder why it's beneficial to have a rete mirabile before the gills.  It makes sense for a bird to want one before its feet: so that blood and oxygen reach the feet without heat being lost to the feet.  Is the same thing true for gills?  Are they just as efficient even if they're cold? So the rete in opah is actually within the gills, not before. It serves as an internal heater within the gills to warm up the blood that gets oxygenated at the gills that is then sent to the rest of the body. In this way the opah is able to keep its entire body "warm-blooded." Another bonus point for having the rete at the gills is because the blood goes from the gills to the heart. Warmer blood at the heart means it can pump faster - so better circulation to the rest of the tissues. 

And this brings up a good point - the gills are a limiting factor for endothermy in fishes because its directly exposed to the water and all of that blood that passes the gills then gets cold before getting sent to the rest of the body. This is why tunas, sharks, billfishes, manta rays(?), and other fishes that have retes (that aren't at the gills) and have what's called regional endothermy are only able to stay "warm-blooded" in the places that their rete is. 

In terms of efficiency of gills at different temperatures - not sure! Its an interesting question! Personally I would think that the efficiency of gas exchange would not be affected that much because other fishes (without the rete in gills) keep their gills "cold" and they still do fine.  Dont our lungs bring cold air into the blood the same way youre talking about gills? Air is significantly worse at conducting heat, and its specific heat is much lower, thus much less heat loss from using air instead of water. The air is also preheated by the pathway it travels to the lung, further reducing the temperature gradient at the lung.

edit: a word. I see! Does that mean in a cold environment we lose more heat on an exhale than an inhale? So to my understanding the air gets warmed up before it actually reaches the lungs due to a bunch of warm blood vessels lining the pathway to the lungs. 

But I'm not sure! I'm not too good with anything not fish-related haha! A modified rete mirable, perhaps. I didn't see if it has another rete to regulate buoyancy, or a lack of one. Whoa, I work with Wegner and helped make a figure in this paper. Crazy to see it on the front page.  That's pretty exciting :) almost like being science famous. Congrats!  I was going to comment on how this doesn't seem like "warm-blooded" to me. Since it has to perform a physical repetitive action to maintain body temperature, whereas mammals can stay still and maintain temperature.

Then I looked at Wikipedia and found it can be broken down to endothermy, homeothermy, and tachythermy. 

I would say this fish would be endothermic, but lack the other two qualities. Mammals have all three. Any metabolic biologists around? &gt; whereas mammals can stay still and maintain temperature

Not at all temperatures though. Hence why we shiver in cold environments. And the environment where this fish lives in (40F) is a temperature humans would shiver in.  This needs to be put in the context of evolution.

Afaik, this is a true fish, using the same mechanisms of existing fish today which produce regional warm blooded was (and the same mechanism), but with a more advanced distribution system for that warm blood.

 [deleted] &gt;&gt;The determination helps to explain why opah are such high performance predators that have a keen sense of vision, swim speedily, react quickly, and have the stamina to chase down fast-moving prey.

Seems like there would have to be an evolutionary price to pay for this or there would be many types of warm blooded fish. They use a lot more energy so they have to eat more Generally endothermy is costly in terms of energy but has the advantage of organisms being fully alert and active at a larger range of temps. Ectotherms expend less metabolic energy keeping warm but end up being less active when environmental temps aren't optimal. Oh sweet. This guy was a PhD student at an oceanography lab I worked at in college. He always went out every day to tag sharks along the San Diego coast line. He's a pretty cool dude. Glad to see his stuff being recognized in a mainstream arena.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] How are they just now discovering this?  Opah is not some new fish we didn't know about - I ate some on my honeymoon in Hawaii 15 years ago.  Bonus: it's *delicious*, Chances are the difference is pretty subtle. And it's not really the first question you ask of just some random fish. You just assume it's going to be mostly similar to other fish. Of course you ask questions, but it takes time to get around to these things, and sometimes they're just flukes. 

Stuff like this happens all the time.  I think it's similar to the thing about lion fish being able to survive in freshwater. No one ever checked because they assumed it wouldn't be able to survive in freshwater.

If essentially all fish are "cold blooded", it's an easy leap to assume this fish was. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Maybe a dumb question, but how is this different from some species of tuna, which are also "warm-blooded." Tuna typically only warm certain parts of its anatomy to allow for fast swimming.  Apparenly this fish warms all parts of its body to keep its whole metabolism quick.  Also, I think tunas are 20 degrees warmer than ambient and this fish is 40.

Edit:  wikipedia states 36f warmer for tuna and this article for the new fish states 41.  Also, wiki states the tuna has a similar counter-current heat exchanger setup to warm cold blood from the gills and not lose the heat to the water....   so I'm not sure what the huge difference is. The article has a math error, it's actually 4.8C or 8.6F over ambient when free swimming. [See this post.](http://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/35z0uo/first_warmblooded_fish_identified/cr9k0om) Wait, so is it still technically a fish, or is it a mammal now like a dolphin?  Still very much a fish. Mammals all share a common ancestor. No matter how much this fish starts looking like a mammal, it will never become one. Really stupid question here, if somehow, a new fish gets the ability to procreate with a mammal, what happens?

And why will this never happen? &gt; Really stupid question here, if somehow, a new fish gets the ability to procreate with a mammal, what happens?

Others have told you that's impossible, but I think that's actually a good question if you rephrase it a little bit. Anyway there's a half-answer that can be found in bacteria. If you rephrase it a bit, what you're asking is, "How do we determine taxonomy for an organism that has parents from two divergent groups?"

In Bacteria, this happens all the time. While Bacteria don't have "parent**s**" since they are asexual, horizontal gene transfer happens constantly. We see Bacteria with *archaeal* genes - horizontal gene transfer across *domains*. So if we were to find (or create!) some organism where half of its genome is from an alphaproteobacterium and half of its genes are from an actinobacterium, where does it belong? That's the same as asking, "if we created an organism that's half cat and half turnip, is it a cat or a turnip?"

The answer is to give up and concede that our current taxonomic system is inadequate. there is no good way to classify something like that. The best we can do is classify *genes* instead of *species*. Discrete species concepts are kind of outdated anyways if you ask me (or most microbiologists... haha) Our current taxonomic system is designed for classifying life that has evolved on Earth.  It is not designed to deal with genetically engineered organisms.

You're right about microbiology and horizontal gene transfer though.  Cladistics was created using a top down approach, designed specifically with sexually reproducing multicellular organisms in mind (and even then it runs into problems with horizontal gene transfer due to retroviruses and the transposons this leaves in the genome).  Cladistics and classifying taxons by decent is still pretty damn useful though for multicellular organisms; I'll argue you can't really make sense of biology without viewing complex life on Earth through the lense of cladistics.

Perhaps microbiology (at least microbiology dealing with procaryotes) needs a modified system of cladistics to make it more understandable, perhaps there could be a better model for clasifying these organisms.  But cladisitcs is still a very useful model, it's utility far outweighs it's flaws (and I have yet to see anything better). &gt; Cladistics and classifying ~~taxons~~taxa by decent is still pretty damn useful though for **multicellular organisms**

so... less than 1% of the planet's diversity?  ;)

&gt;Perhaps microbiology (at least microbiology dealing with procaryotes) needs a modified system of cladistics to make it more understandable, perhaps there could be a better model for clasifying these organisms.

I don't think there's going to be one. In my mind, ecological questions (what you're trying to answer via cladistics) are better when focused on genes rather than species. Species just happen to be things that genes can move around in, but as discussed, this process is more fluid than the old boys were prepared for 100+ years ago. Focusing questions on genes instead of species circumvents the whole taxonomic issue, in favor of something more functional and relevant. 

I mean, usually we want to know what something is (a species name) so we can look it up and find out what it does, why it matters, where it came from, et cetera. Now that we are entering the genomic era, I think we will (or should...) eschew species-focused questions in favor of a more gene-centric view of biology.  It would seem to me that a gene centric system would fall apart in that the vast majority of life on Earth has no genetic record preserved in terms of DNA. Looking at phenotypic features is really the only way to make sense of what was living before modern analysis took place without resorting to wonky mutation rate models. There are vast differences between the reproductive systems of mammals and fish, the least of which is the egg/sperm barrier. I can't even imagine what it would take for a fish to evolve (by chance, I guess) a similar enough reproductive system.

But if by some miracle, fertilization could occur, the resulting hybrid would probably die sometime during gestation and be stillborn. 

 [deleted] In theory, it could happen and at that point it would look extremely similar to said mammal because its DNA would be nearly identical.

In practice, it would never happen because the chances are astronomically low that it would evolve to the point where its DNA is that similar to a mammal. Animals have to be *extremely* close genetically in order to just fertilize the egg, let alone produce offspring that can even live long enough to be born. This will never happen because cross-species reproduction just doesn't happen. The sperm and eggs for species too far apart biologically just won't "work" together, and the egg will reject the sperm.

That's why the only cross-species breeding you ever see are ones that are already *extremely* close biologically, such as horses with donkeys to create mules (or is it the other way around?). But, even at that point, the children creatures are always sterile. 
&gt;But, even at that point, the children creatures are always sterile.

[This isn't true.](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hybrid_speciation) &gt;But, even at that point, the children creatures are always sterile.

Speciation through hybridization is actually not that rare. It's theorized to have happened hundreds of times in the African Rift Lakes between species of Cichlids, for example. Viable hybrids are so common to Cichlid keeping aquarists to the point of annoyance.  Not to mention a major human cline shows clear genetic evidence of a hybridization event with Neanderthals.  Non africans are all Homo sapienXneandratholensis hybrids (though the vast, vast majority of the genome is still sapien in origin, nevertheless every non pure blooded african human has some Neandrathal DNA in them). Do you have any more information on that? Hybrids are not always sterile. For two species that can produce hybrid offspring to be considered different species, the hybrids, when mated with other hybrids, must produce viable offspring that can go on to have their own viable offspring, and so on and so forth. Also, I'm not sure which one is called a mule, but a female horse can have a child with a male donkey, and a male horse can have a child with a female donkey.

Edit: I made a mistake. What I meant to type is that for two species (I guess in this case, communities or subspecies may work, I'm not entirely sure) to **not** be considered different species geneticst here, this is very wrong.  Biological species concept is satisfied when the 1st generation offspring are NOT viable or have reduced fitness. Oh whoops, after typing the first part of the sentence I thought what would qualify to make them the same species. Thanks for pointing that out, and I think that I'll leave my mistake in there, I'll just point out that I'm wrong. A dolphin is a mammal for many, many more reasons than just being warm blooded. Mammals produce milk. This fish does not produce milk. Wait, so dolphins produce milk? I am dead serious curious. Yes. All mammals produce milk (including egg-laying ones, like platypus).

[Video of milking a dolphin](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dXipZPiTImc) for curious.  [dolphin milk](http://www.whalefacts.org/dolphin-milk/) Yup. Fun fact: The word Mammal comes from the latin root for breast. Birds are warm blooded but not mammals. It's still a fish. It's a fish. Fish generally stay at the temperature of the water around them because their gills very efficiently exchange the temperature of their blood with the temperature of the water. These fish have developed a fairly unique internal heat exchange which occurs directly before the blood-gill-water interaction. The blood vessels flowing to the gills (warm, low oxygen) wrap around the blood vessels returning from the gills to the body (cold, high oxygen) and a heat exchange takes place there, conserving the warmth of the blood.  Opah lack mammary glands. This is a critical component of organisms in the class Mammalia; it's still a fish. It blows my mind that these things are still being discovered.

Maybe we are so overwhelmed with all the data available, that we actually throw the towel and assume that we will never get to know the knowledge that our species has amassed through thousands and thousands of years of discovery....

And yet, we still get to marvel at new stuff being added to the syllabus...

I love being alive... Owyn Snodgrass, one hell of a name.

How many fish have we catalogued? This is news to me only because I thought out of all the variation of fish one or two would be the warm blooded. I've always read that giant blue fin tuna (gbft) were warm blooded. A simple google search seems to confirm this. Can anyone definitively tell me how this fish is"warm blooded" and the gbft isn't? (Serious). 
http://www.fishwatch.gov/seafood_profiles/species/tuna/species_pages/pac_bluefin_tuna.html Like many in the comments have said, this fish's whole body is warm, whereas tunas and such only have warm blood in parts of their body.  It's in the article. Some tuna and sharks have regional endothermy. It's ironic that the moon fish can self generate more heat than the sun fish.  [deleted] Has anybody noticed how different and dolphin-looking those fins are? is there an explanation for it? Warm-blooded isn't the right term to use, endothermic is!  [deleted] OH dude!!! Nike Wagner guest lectured my Ichthylogy class. He hinted that he was getting a paper published about opah that would be super cool and now i know why!! that is freaking awesome! I knew an expert in plant biology, and she used to say "The only rule in biology is that there's an exception to every rule. Looks like that's still holding true. things like this just leave me wonder how exactly does evolution do things   At random. The article was great and the find is awesome - what I'm more awestruck by is the fact that yet another science-religion war is occurring in an article about a fish. [deleted] Sure.  Fish biologist here and I'll try my best.  

the gills are set up to "heat" blood that has been effectively cooled down by traveling throughout the body of the fish.  This works by using already heated blood that's on its way out of the gills (going to rest of the body) to heat cold blood that is returning to the gills.   Electrical engineer here. That's just a rete. Many fish have this. [deleted] Saw a study where babies that were placed near boa constrictors divided by glass. The babies were completely calm until they brought mothers into the room. The babies would cry and freak out the second they saw their mothers acting frightened. Even more interesting, even women that maintained a poker face, but were uncomfortable, would trigger fear in their infants.

In the wild, kids that quickly recognize their parents fear are more likely to escape a dangerous situation safely.

EDIT: I'm trying to find the source. I believe it was a Nova special, but it's been years. It was definitely PBS programming. I guess it's similar when you see a child falling of a swing, scraping their knee etc., they are placent and will look around to see their parent. The will start to cry if they other receive no intention at all (warning function) or when they sense a startled emotion by their parents (imitation) but usually won't unless it hurts really bad.

With so many other functions, you will notice a slight delay in a childs reaction where it tries to figure out it's appropriate response. I think all good caretakers have some variation of a surprised amused face with "...you ok buddy...?!"

Gives the child the attention and support if they're hurt, but is semi smiling, saying "You're going to be ok, right?!"

Just thought id add that. That is really interesting and is definitely true in my experience as a little kid (from what i can remember now that i'm 25). Very cool. Link?  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Child psychologist checking in:

I use a lot of modified CBT to treat children/adolescents with different types of anxiety.


Half of (at least) my job is working with the anxious parent(s) and reviewing how they inadvertently model or reinforce their child's anxious behaviors. 

Edit: Obligatory disclaimer: It would be pretty unethical to give advice or treatment recommendations in a forum such as this. Please do not interpret my professional observations as indicating anything more than what they are. 

I'm getting a lot of PM's.  You probably work with people like me. My Mom has depression and an anxiety disorder and similarly I have depression and an anxiety disorder. Last year I got CBT and DBT for my depression and anxiety.  Do you think those therapies were effective for your depression and anxiety? I'm on a similar if not same boat as you (anxious/depression-prone, neurotic mother).  Yes, I do. The therapies really helped me turn things around. Let me give you a timeline

* May 2013: withdraw from university I've been attending for 3 years due to anxiety and depression

* Jan 2014: enroll in community college

* Early Mar 2014: withdraw from all my classes due to anxiety and depression

* Mid Mar 2014: enroll in out-patient, partial hospitalization program in order to treat Depression and anxiety. Receive CBT and DBT therapy in a group setting. 

* Mid April 2014: successfully discharged from PHP. 

* June 2014: Get a job as a waiter. Love job, do very well.

* Sept 2014: Re-enroll in community college

* December 2014: Successfully finish semester with a 4.0

* January 2015: Re-enroll in community college

* April 2015: Accepted as a transfer student two big, state universities

* May 2015: About to finish semester, graduate with my AA.  Congratulations, it sounds like you are doing really well!
My partner has a lot of anxiety and depression. They are in therapy now and getting meds and I try to be as supportive as possible, but some days I struggle too. I hope they can be as successful as you have been! Thanks! A combination of therapy, medication, and a supportive a really supportive parent really helped me. 

There are support groups out there for the people who have SOs with mental illness. If you ever think they might be helpful then you might want to check one out. 

I hope so too! It's been a long struggle, but it's gotten a lot better. All you and your partner can do is take it day by day and enjoy the specialness of each other. I bet you'll do just fine :) Where could I find said support groups? I feel for you. As someone how has had to be the rock for someone with depression and anxiety, it wears on you in a way that few understand. I hope you realize you aren't the cause and that you are a very special person for sticking around.
 [deleted] It took me four years to go back. Don't rush yourself and do yourself more harm A lot of kids rush off to college at 18 because that's what their parents expect of them, but the kids that know what they're doing at age 18 are few and far between. A lot of kids end up dropping out, or getting a degree in something they hate doing as a job. College is something that takes the right mindset and self-control.  It took me three years to go back. You're not alone. It's a journey, and it takes work. If you work hard at therapy, making lifestyle changes, and suffering through different medications until you find ones that work, you WILL be rewarded.  If there's one thing I learned from "dropping out" of college several times is to not force yourself to go back until you are truly ready. It easily becomes a vicious cycle if we pretend to be someone we aren't and it becomes expensive both financially and emotionally! Excessive debt is never good for ones emotional health.

It's okay to dedicate yourself to something besides college. If it truly makes you happy (finding this is the tricky part of course) and you can make ends meet and perhaps stash a bit of savings away (eventually! Start small, even pocket change and coupon clipping can build decent savings over the course of a few years), go for it! You may eventually decide to add college into the mix.... You may not....  But man, life's too short to try to live up to other people's expectations of who we should be. Be yourself if you ever want to be happy.  It's awesome to hear how well everything turned around for you! I'm a recovering addict of three years now and CBT has been a huge part of my recovery.

I went from high-school dropout/copious drug user to doing four months in a maximum security jail, which was my rock bottom. While in jail I realized that I needed to change my ways as I was heading down an incredibly destructive path. 

Upon my release from jail I attended an in-patient residential rehab where the process started. From there I slowly worked my way to completing my high-school, enrolling in college, getting my license/car and finding full time work.

It's definitely been a process with many bumps in the road, but CBT and rehab have taught me the skills and tools necessary to weather the storm and come out on top. I tried DBT once, I was the only person in the group who showed up. I still went to all of the meetings, but all they could do was outline techniques. I didn't get to practice or talk to anyone else going through this... 

I have depression and anxiety and I really think group therapy would help me feel less of a freak/less alone in this. Did the group aspect help you? And it sounds like you are saying you had group CBT, how does that work?

I have no idea if I'm receiving CBT from my therapist, but I'm not getting much out of it and never have. She hardly ever talks during sessions, we don't have goals, and after 6+ months I don't feel like I'm getting anywhere. In fact I just quit my job because I can cope with the stress.

Anyway, that's why I'd like to hear more about your experiences and maybe try something new. No goals, and no talking on her part? I'm not an expert, but that sounds nothing like CBT. I think you need a new therapist. The cool part about therapy is that your therapist is just another person, and you can draw on his/her experiences of being in the room with you. I challenge you to share your feelings with your therapist about how the sessions are going, and ask their perspective, as well as what they believe they can do for you, and how they conceptualize what is actually going on for you. Give your real feedback to the therapist. If you don't get a thoughtful answer that makes sense, discuss termination and look elsewhere. Not every therapist is for every person. Can you elaborate a little more on how this treatment works? I've been taking Buspar for about a year now for my depression and anxiety, but my 16 year old son is having similar issues. 

We're currently doing counselling and he's tried a couple of different drugs now and nothing seems to be working. I really want to help my son get better. I'm on buspar as well and if I skip a dose I freak out. It's terrifying to be scared and anxious for no reason. How do you deal? I take Buspar more to level out my mood.  I don't have a problem with anxiety, but I have been diagnosed with moderate depression.  When I'm not taking the medication, I have terrible mood swings (and most of them the negative moods).  I realized they helped many years ago when my mom was still alive and she was taking them (this was when I was in my 20's).  I asked her for some one day and noticed that they helped take the edge off everything. 

When my wife mentioned that I should go to counselling and see a doctor after a particularly dark stretch a little over a year ago, I mentioned it to the doctor.  He gave me a prescription for some and I'll have to say I've been a lot better.  If I have a particularly bad stretch where even the drugs don't help, I just have a tendency to turtle up emotionally.  It's not really healthy, and it will just generally come out all at once. My parents don't seem to understand the concept that getting past anxiety isn't a good thing to try while attending school.  I dropped half my classes just to avoid anxiety getting to bad to handle and the depression that can follow.  It may seem counterintuitive to keep trying especially when every bone in your body wants to curl up in a bed ALL DAY and even the thought of any social interaction paralyzed you, but I found that "just keep swimming" was a big part of the road to recovery for me.  My parents pushed me to keep going even when I gave up on myself and that was just what I needed because in the end, a lot of the anxiety and depression I had stemmed from fictions beliefs about myself.  I didn't fail grad school like I thought I would; people were not as unsympathetic as I thought they would be.  

I had therapy once a week and after much hesitation I also started taking medication (Klonopin and seraquil).  I made it through the 3 years and after I graduated, all the self inflicted pressure and stress dissipated little by little until I felt good enough to ween myself off the medications.  That was 10 months ago and I haven't had a relapse.  

Everyone has times when they need an extra push and grad school was that time for me.  I'm glad I kept going and didn't take off a year or two because if I had, it would have probably been a vicious cycle of feeling like I'm not good enough.  Seeing people I started school with finish before me, would have been the worse feeling in the world.  But that's just me.  

Edit: My point is, it's possible to seek treatment while still living your life.  Please see my reply below regarding helpful resources and suggestions.   Congratulations! That's an incredible achievement. You have a lot to be proud of. 

It's really encouraging to read this. My anxiety and depression can be pretty severe, and sometimes it feels like things will never get better. Stories like these give me hope that maybe someday I won't have to feel like this anymore. Thank you for posting. Sounds like a mirror of my life, minus the getting your shit together part.  I attended college abroad in 2004, went to classes for about a month and then stopped almost entirely due to anxiety, depression, and the drug use that was self-medicating those problems.  Got home, tried to salvage with community college and finished one semester, second semester I signed up but never went to class.

Nothing hurts more than seeing your peers graduate college and start interesting careers and have easier lives but you're stuck struggling.  At least I have a wife that is working on her masters.  She alone has helped me immensely with my anxiety and depression but I'm still degree-less. [deleted] [deleted] My SO dealt with depression through high school, and CBT really helped him. Even 7 years or so later, he still maintains that what he learned through that should be able to "stave off" any remission that comes his way.  Ugh, acronyms. What is CBT and DPT? CBT - Cognitive Behavioral Therapy

DBT - Dialectical Behavior Therapy Great.  This basically reaffirms the fact that effectively the last ten years or so I've been fighting anxiety and depression, I've also been breaking my kids. :/ Please don't be anxious about how your anxiety is making your kids anxious.  At least you recognize it, and can use that recognition to not blame their future anxious/depressive behaviours all on them, have them internalize their worthlessness/brokenness, and eventually require either a) years of therapy themselves, or b) spiral into a pit of darkness and underachievement from which they will never claw back out of. 

 I do recognize it, but it really was my wife who got me to take the blinders off and realize what I was putting myself through.  Without that, I would still be suffering and I am extremely grateful. For those confused or coming from the seedier side of the internet, "CBT" is "cognitive~~-based~~ behavioral therapy".  Not that other thing.  

edit: Thanks to /u/Jatz55  For those of you even more confused, "that other thing" is cock and ball torture.

Also, btw, it's cognitive *behavioral* therapy [deleted] Thank you. How much of anxiety is outward behaviors and how much is internalized? Internalized anxiety will have behavioral presentation.  could it be more physiological symptoms than behavioral though? digestive paralysis, increased heart rate, sweaty palms, etc?  even when the person feels emotionally like they're in a fair mood? not feeling distressed or nervous? You can feel normal but still be anxious.  It's just because you get used to it after a while.  But your brain is still in an anxious state. I think there are some psychotherapeutic paradigms that would say so, like ISTDP. Don't know the research it's based on, but I know that one of its main premises is that anxiety manifests itself in somatic and cognitive symptoms. Other than that, altered digestion, increased heart rate and sweaty palms are necessary parts of the feeling of anxiety. I have a half sister that was given up for adoption when she was a newborn back in the late 60s.  I found her in 2013 when she was 44, she has severe anxiety and depression and has a lot of the same mannerisms as our mother.  However, her adoptive family have no depression or anxiety issues.  Mom has severe anxiety and depression, her brother is on disability for depression and anxiety.  I can see how anxiety/depression could be a learned trait passed down from parent to child and had I not found my sister to have very similar issues would believe it no question. It doesn't need to be genetic for both your mother and half-sister to have suffered with anxiety and depression; they're both pretty common things for people to experience at some point in their lives. 

Mental health difficulties are obviously complex and there are going to be any number of factors at play. The [stress-vulnerability model](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diathesis%E2%80%93stress_model) (or stress-diathesis, depending on where you're looking) is what I use to explain it to my clients/family/friends most often. It's a helpful way of understanding that symptoms develop at the junction where your degree of inherited vulnerability (or resilience) and the numbers of stressors in your life meet.  Anything I can do as a Pre-K teacher who sees this from time to time? Super anxious 4 and 5 year olds are a bummer You'll often see things manifest somatically. So anxious kids may get a lot of stomach aches with no other symptoms or actual illness. Obviously shyness or shutting down as well. Isolating, not interacting much with peers. Might be overly attached to a parent (particularly if parent is super anxious).  How does anxiety manifest in kids that young? How do they show it? Fear, discomfort, apprehension, etc. Anxious parent here. What techniques have worked for your patients? My son acts his frustrations out just like me, which in turn, make me act the same. I'm open to any ideas. Thanks in advance. Neither of my parents had my depression or anxiety (though anxiety runs in my mother's line) but my father DID have a terrible temper, and so did I.

What really helped me was when he actually started working on it and turning himself around, keeping his temper in check by not acting on it, and then eventually not even getting enraged any longer.

Seeing him do it really helped me do it, because it both provided an example and let me know it was possible. I don't really know 100% how he did it, but I think for both of us it was a form of self-awareness like they teach in CBT, where you recognise you are doing, or about to do the behaviour, and then stop yourself or remove yourself from the situation.

CBT hasn't helped my depression or anxiety much, just taken the edge off it, but it really, really helped for my temper, which I think was a learned behaviour. My mum would worry so much if she knew she contributed to my anxiety, I could never tell her that. Somewhat related; how does one get in touch with a good therapist? The kind you can actually talk to? During my first years of high school my mom convinced me to go to her therapist because we were having huge relationship issues. I was incredibly depressed and anxious at the time and the advice that ultimately helped me was "Get out of the house as often as you can without hurting your moms feelings". The combo of spending more time with friends and more time away from a very anxious and stressed mother helped me return to normal.  I go to therapy a lot, but CBT hasn't changed anything for depression or anxiety. What do you think my next step should be? I have chronic anxiety/panic disorder, obsessive compulsive disorders and depression. I see a therapist and a psychiatrist. My son is 7 and is showing the same signs I had at his age of these things. I hate myself for it. His dad suffers from social anxiety and depression. I feel our son doesn't have a fighting chance to live a normal, happy life. And then, I see a post like this and it pretty much makes me feel hopeless.
What is CBT and DBT? My son is in therapist and seeing a psychiatrist as well. They suspect he may be on the autistic spectrum now. He is anaphylactic to all nuts and has asthma and he is so scared of that bc he doesn't want to die. All these things cause me great stress. School lunch, holiday parties, Halloween, anything involving food or candy. I am turning him into ME!!! I just want us to be happy. You are assuming the only environmental factors are behavior modeling. It's possible that something or things that both parent and child are exposed to causes anxiety as well. Where did they say that? Because in this comment they didn't exclude that there are other environmental factors, or even mention them. 

As they are a professional in the field, lecturing them the existence of other such factors is being captain obvious. [deleted] This is an interesting study, but it runs contrary to most of the other studies looking at the heritability of anxiety. As such, it is grounds for further research, but it definitely isn't enough to settle this issue. Many studies have looked into the genetics of anxiety and found there to be a significant heritable component. [This meta analysis](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11578982) for example, found that most anxiety disorders have a very large genetic component, and that unique environment was also significant, while the effect of shared environment was uncertain.

Anxiety definitely runs in families. A large body of research shows that it is largely a genetic trait. While this study is interesting, it's far to early to cast aside the role of genetics altogether. Also, the significance of genetics with respect to anxiety (and most other traits) becomes larger over the lifespan while the shared-environmental factor becomes smaller over the lifespan. I wouldn't have expected that the shared-environmental influence would be found to be larger than the genetic influence even in children, but if these children were tested again in adulthood it's likely that the roles of genes and shared-environment would switch in significance. Is this the same or different then 'epigenetics'? Is there an anxiety gene that switches on because of the environment where there is an anxious parent?  No. As a side note, most of the time when people use "epigenetics" to explain differences between people they have almost no idea what they are talking about. Epigenetics is one of those ideas in science that is actually scientifically meaningful but has been granted near magical powers and taken on a life of its own in popular culture (pop-science) based on fundamental scientific misunderstandings. The main misunderstanding is thinking that epigenetic influence is something special. Essentially all human cells have genes that are regulated and switched on/off all of the time or else we would not function as human beings. Our organs depend on the fact that the epigenome differs from organ to organ.

But what I was getting at in my comment is that people's traits become more predictable by their genes than by their upbringing over time, probably because people seek out environments that reinforce their genetically-biased tendencies as they grow older. The result is that genetically similar people *become* more similar over time, even if they haven't met each other. And conversely, adopted siblings tend to diverge in their traits over time. By the time they are adults they are basically as similar as two random strangers off the street by most measures. That's interesting; never heard of this effect. Is there good reading on this? Can you link a review of part of this large body? He linked it here: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11578982

PDF here: http://www.researchgate.net/profile/Michael_Neale/publication/11769577_A_review_and_meta-analysis_of_the_genetic_epidemiology_of_anxiety_disorders/links/0fcfd512bbb0d254a2000000.pdf Yes, my understanding was that both components play a role. Unfortunately the information about the method used for this paper is behind the paywall, so I have no idea how convincing this is. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] This terrifies me as I am prone to anxiety and I really really don't want to pass this on to my children. Is there anything I can do to change this? Or since I am already an adult, am I pretty much doomed? Since my husband is very laid back, will his influence help mitigate the influence my anxiety has? Getting treatment from a therapist would probably be helpful.  I've been to a few in my life during rough periods, and when I really opened up they were a massive help.  Usually you can find one through your healthcare network. Just be aware of your behavior when around your kids. Choose your words carefully. You can't turn off anxiety but you can keep yourself from sharing with your kids everything that you're anxious about. You may not be able to keep from living in your own personal world of anxiety but you can keep from pulling your kids into it.
 [deleted] How interesting. I got it from my mom too.

Edit: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emotional_contagion Same. Her side has all the depression/anxiety I got the depression from my dad and the anxiety from my mom. Luckily I have access to a cat and beer.  Same here. Came here to post something along the lines of "haha thanks mom" only to see a basic variation at the top of the thread. This is all anecdotal evidence but I wonder if the mother to offspring transmission is significantly greater than the father to offspring. A good question! On average, mothers still spend about twice as much of their time caring for their children (14% of their time awake) compared to fathers (7%) [Source: [Pew Research Center](http://www.pewsocialtrends.org/2013/03/14/modern-parenthood-roles-of-moms-and-dads-converge-as-they-balance-work-and-family/), which uses raw data from the [American Time Use Survey](https://www.atusdata.org/atus/)]. That would allow for more opportunities to 'transmit' or model these thought patterns. Women are also more visibly emotional too.  Which could allow for that good mirror neuron activity to pick up and copy the mothers reactions to things. This is all so funny. I had a stay at home dad, and completely and *utterly* inherited his mannerisms.



And not the good ones either.


Depression, anger, anxiety. All ideal situational responses.  Ah, dude, you got anger? All I got was anxiety and alcholism. Funny, I was always quick to blame my alcoholism on being Irish because that's what my Dad always did.  As a stay at home dad, this is the exact reason I've been trying to change all of my bad behaviors into good ones. So far my son has taught me more about what it is to be a good man and good father than anyone or anything else. Not that I was a mess to begin with, but we can always be better.  I'm the same.  I actually thought, 'Oh man, I kind-of want to show this to my mom but I know it'd just make her anxious and depressed.' Exact same, but replace "mom" with "pregnant wife." Exact same, but replace "pregnant wife" with "Mum". I had a stay-at-home dad who was always anxious, and I inherited his anxiety. So I think it depends on who raises the child. I got it from my mom too haha I'm sensing a trend here......
 Thanks, mom Got it from my dad. I think the reverse can also happen. My mother is very direct and always in control of her emotions (unless angry) and I'm the same way, but when I was younger, early childhood through my teens, I had a lot of social anxiety that prevented me from even leaving the house at times. Somewhere along the way I must have used my mom as an example and learned to disconnect those feelings of anxiety. Unfortunately, I also picked up her outburst of anger.  [deleted] And I'm still here developing my own anxiety without the help of anyone :) :/ I've been doing my damned best at avoiding inheriting my mom's ridiculously anxious behaviour.  So far I feel successful, but every once in a while I notice myself over reacting to little things and anxiously blowing things out of proportion, and I make myself take a step back. [deleted] [deleted] I have had the exact opposite experience as you. I had major anxiety issues by my early 20s. Mom was my rock. She never showed any signs of it. 15 years later, Mom's anxiety disorder started to become apparent and even got worse for her after menopause. I'm not disagreeing with you by any means whatsoever. Just find it odd that we've had reverse experiences. Well, for what it's worth, my mom has severe anxiety and gave her newborn up for adoption in the late 60s.  I was born in '81 and was raised by my mom, I have severe anxiety.  I found my half sister in 2013 with the aid of Search Angels.  She has severe anxiety, her adoptive parents do not. &gt;  Hopefully this will encourage other people to seek perceptual changes in their lives rather than a purely medical route for dealing with their anxiety

This is implying that anxiety is purely taught/ that because it can be taught, it can be "forgotten".  For a lot of people, the medical route is one that can change their lives in an extremely positive way.  And I know that your threw "purely" in their before medical but again, that's hardly a thing for people that have anxiety not related to specific rare instances, such as flying.  Almost anyone with an anxiety disorder will have therapy in addition to their medical treatment.

Edit: Also, these are things that you "learn" at a young age and shape who you are as a person.  Just because they are "learned" does not make them any less of a psychological disorder. Great reply. Thanks. 

 I saw this as the top reply and rolled my eyes.  For some reason, many psychology related posts cause this sub to change from /r/science to /r/pseudopsych or /r/anecdote or /r/imandexpertbecauseitookpsych101.  One of the few things are really upsets me about is reddit's idea that having experience with a psychological problem makes you an expert in it.  It's like people that have had heart attacks chiming in with practicing advice for open heart surgery.

Sorry, rant over. I have been studying mine too. My therapists and psychiatrists have brought up the possibility of it being "taught" and prior to them bringing it up I had been thinking the same thing. Then going through my life as careful as I can I can say with 100% certainty that I had never seen any of my parents in any form of anxiety attack or sort of an anxious state if you will. After I started having my problems my mother have told me that she has it from time to time but since she was/is a nurse and or have worked with medicine/care, not sure about the english term, her entire life she knew that she should avoid showing any signs of it around us kids. And my father is a very stoic secure man whom I adore greatly and who is extremly understanding of my issues have never really told me wether he has any issues or not, I have never noticed anything, but he really knows how to handle those situations. But he was with my mom for about 20 years so I guess he learned how to handle it with her.

Point is, I am certain it in my case is genetic rather than taught. I am also certain that it is eniterly possible for it to be caused by both depending on the individual. I am also the only one of us kids so far to have issues with it, my two younger siblings do not have problems with it. And even though it in some cases may be genetics I still think people should consider as you say the non medical alternatives. I'm taking a route with both seeking the correct changes aswell as when truly needed taking a weak "sedative", I once again dont know the english term. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hydroxyzine is the thing I'm talking about. It might be a disease, but it is possible to live with it with nothing but mental perparation, training and understanding and the occasional pill. As long as possible, keep it occasional. &gt;  Then going through my life as careful as I can I can say with 100% certainty that I had never seen any of my parents in any form of anxiety attack or sort of an anxious state if you will.

Not disagreeing with you per say, but.... there are years that you do not remember, and rearing very young children will often cause any latent anxiety to rear its head. It is very stressful caring for babies and toddlers. All of us learned conditioned responses during the years that we simply do not remember. 

Just something to consider. Keep in mind anxiety shows in extremely subtle ways.  You wouldn't consciously notice your mother going from an open state to reserved when she goes into public. 

  Not saying for sure it's learned, just something to think about. There's subtleties in situations we often don't pick up on consciously. Thinking back doesn't really catch these things. 



 I've thought about this myself because I've seen it happen in my family, the validation feels nice.

It's really hard trying to explain to people why I try to keep my mother and my grandmother at a distance. I fear getting trapped into their cycle of anxiety, resentment, and depression everytime I get too close. My mother's a single daughter who's struggled with anxiety and depression for most of her life (although she seems to have hidden it pretty well for a good portion of my childhood) and I feel like that rubbed off my grandmother, who has always displayed heavy symptoms of anxiety and now seems to be falling into neurotic territory. My mother has come to understand this and has attempted to keep her at a distance, but this backfires because my grandmother resents that, which is sad because my mother feels the same way when I do it. So when everyone tries to come together, everything goes to hell again and it becomes a vicious cycle. No thanks, I'd like to think my personal well-being depends on my ability to stand my ground and keep to myself.
Edit: fixed typos. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Could it be that people who have not developed coping mechanisms cannot pass them down to their children? Anxiety is no joke just looking at it from another angle. This is going to sound horrible, because things weren't really all that bad. I'm kind of hypersensitive. But personally my anxiety developed during childhood as a coping mechanism in a way. Now I don't need it, but I can't seem to get rid of it. Respect, I hope you can leave it behind one day. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] What about dads and depression? Not gonna lie, I was perfectly fine when I grew up with my mother. One day during junior high my sister and I moved to our father's place. He was severely depressed for a few good years and in denial. He also wear his depression/anxiety on his sleeve, super expressive, has a lot of facial cues/body ticks. 

I learned the majority of my anxious behavior from him. I was also terribly depressed growing up there, I just didn't know it during the time.

I've tried to grow past it, but I can't help but blaming him for me being where I am today, fighting depression on a day to day basis [deleted] [deleted] Anxiety is not some simple emotion to be taken lightly. It goes to the core of our survival instinct, and our interaction with the environment. 

The inhabitability of anxiety through epigenetic mechanisms has been demonstrated in numerous systems: [olfaction](http://www.nature.com/neuro/journal/v17/n1/full/nn.3594.html) and [behavior](http://www.nature.com/neuro/journal/v17/n9/full/nn.3778.html), for example.

I would be taken to conjecture, and speculate that this makes great sense given our evolution as a deeply social and psychologically complex species.

 I feel like being around anxious people, anywhere, makes me anxious. Coworkers, family members, teammates at races, etc... Its definitely contagious. But imagine being RAISED by anxious people. No doubt it will affect you.  My dad was constantly stressed. I honestly don't remember a time when he wasn't stressed. Living around him was always described as "tense" by my family and I. Even being in a room with him would be stressful because you were afraid he would lash out or yell. I now how anxiety, depression, ocd, and tourette syndrome. I'm currently going to therapy but this study was nice to read. It's interesting how this can be passed down.  This is a nice study design for asking a specific question about genetic influence of anxiety in children at a pretty wide range of age (11-22). The title here is a little misleading though. There are other modes of intergenerational transmission of anxiety other than "learning anxious behaviors from their parents". For example, an anxious mother will have higher levels of stress (glucocorticoids) which a fetus will be exposed to, altering typical brain development. Here is a good example of maternal stress associating with the brain function of six month olds from a group in [Singapore](http://www.nature.com/tp/journal/v5/n2/full/tp20153a.html). And another predicting hippocampal volume (important for emotion) based on maternal anxiety from the same [group](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3784768/). One more from a different group with older children, perhaps a bit more [specific](http://www.du.edu/neurodevelopment/media/documents/fetalglucocorticoid.pdf). Wow this is so relevant I was really anxious all through out my teenage university year then I moved cities and found as soon as I didnt live at home I was a much more well adjusted calm individual I still have the odd struggle with anxiety but its much more in my control. The big change I notice is going back home to visit and watching my anxiety levels rise again and then fall upon leaving 

:D Oh my god, me too!  I'm calm and happy, my friends ask think of me as a mellow person.  As soon as my mom visits I'm crazy anxious like I was as a kid.  I mean I love her but I hate who I am around her. This study explains the cause of my anxiety. What can I do to treat it now that I'm older (22, no longer living with parents)? [deleted] Just because a study says one thing doesn't make it true! Go see a psychologist or therapist first before saying something is caused by it, as anxiety is also strongly linked to genetics and chemical imbalances. Best of luck Perhaps consider seeing a counselor or therapist to get to the root of the anxiety and replace negative thoughts with more positive ones? Self help books can do great. I also recommend anything by Pema Chodron. I thought this was already pretty well known to be true.  Alice Miller's *Drama of the Gifted Child* describes how poor sense of self is passed onto your children.  That was written in 1979.  It's nice to have verification, I suppose.

I can speak to it from personal experience too.  Away from my parents, I'm just fine.  I had to learn how to deal with their deficiencies in order to be able to function around them and have a relationship with them.  In my counseling experience, I see the same lessons of self-worth come up time and time again.

The information is out there.  I'm surprised these ideas aren't incredibly widespread. I was the same for a long time.

Over time, as I've gotten older, the anxiety has crept back in and gotten worse. Even better: I now live somewhere where it is seen as an embarrassing illness and people like to shun those diagnosed, yay! I went to talk therapy.  My anxiety is probably of a different variety too.  I'm mostly all better, and it does come and go.  Honestly, it's a lot associated with sleep diet and exercise.

I hope you're able to cope.  The book I mention is a hell of a read if you can relate to it.  I cried at least 5 times because it's just so true for me.  With my therapy and work, I was able to get in touch with my damaged person and then heal.   Thanks. Really. I usually find ways to extricate myself when it gets bad (gotta love that conscious breathing). I swear, totally fine when exercising/running, but then when at rest...

I'll have to search for such therapy and see what I find here. One of the few things I miss about living in the States (aside from, if I move back I'll need insurance again, more fun!). well they always say that dogs pick up on the owners anxiety and this can make them uncooperative. I assumed it was the same for children. 

If I'm hanging around with a stressed person I'm not going to feel relaxed.   It makes rational sense but my situation seems to be the opposite. Me and my wife are both laid back individuals, but our kids both suffer from anxiety. As a child, I had horrible anxiety but I've been pretty much over it since I was in my 30's.  Lot's of people are commenting that this makes them more anxious about passing their anxiety onto their children. I kind of feel the opposite. My mom's side of the family is filled with anxiety/depression and I was always wary about having kids because I assumed I would pass it on genetically. If this study is true that means as long as I'm able to maintain my anxiety through my children's youth I might actually have a shot at breaking the cycle!  Do a Google search with terms +anxiety and +genetic.  Lots of studies supporting the genetic component of anxiety. I'm not surprised at all: I grew up in a house with a father that ranted and raved and screamed (but thankfully never hit me) and I've struggled with anxiety for most of my life.

It's not easy to "unlearn" the idea that the world is just a very scary and dangerous place. Glad this article made the front page.  I've been diagnosed with bi-polar anxiety / depression about 5 years ago.  I also am the father of two sons, and one of them, age 10, has been under psychiatric care for about the last 3 years for hyperactivity and anxiety.  I quit drinking and smoking when I was diagnosed, and work very hard on being a good dad.  Unfortunately, I don't know what CBT or DBT is. I've not had a counselor, something I really wish I had, I just have my personal psychiatrist, who is extremely sharp.  I take medication daily for my mood disorders, and I never speak about it to anyone other than immediate family and my closest friends.  I'm assuming the 'BT' stands for behavior therapy, but I don't know the C or D reference.  Reading this article and the comments really makes me want to get into counseling or group therapy as well, I could sure use it.  Thanks for posting this OP.
  Cognitive behavior therapy and dialectical behavioral therapy. I just finished the book "Overcoming Depersonalization Disorder" by Dr. Neziroglu today. It has been an eye opener. I was diagnosed with Bipolar I, but have felt that was incorrect and fought the diagnosis for two years. I do realize the resistance to diagnosis can be a part of bipolar disorder, but I really feel like DPD and borderline personality disorder are closer to my symptoms. BPD is actually more heart wrenching than Bipolar I as a diagnosis, at least in my mind. Bipolar I can be medicated. DPD and BPD don't seem to be helped by medication. That really means that it is all in my mind and that there really is no one else to help me. 

At any rate, sorry to tall about myself.  I hope that you find some combination of therapies or medications that help you feel better. And I'm sure your kids will turn out great. It means a lot that you are aware enough to even consider another possibility. Have a good night :)

Edit: Phone wont let me backtrack through text, so *tall* should be *talk*. I is good. I is smart. My mother in law is very anxious and after a week with her I'm anxious for at least a few weeks. There is a substantial body of research supporting the impact of parents' behavioral modeling of anxiety on their children--this isn't total news, but it's good to see more coverage of an issue I see frequently in my clinical practice.  As someone who was wound up tighter than a two-dollar watch by my mother, I can say yeah. "Did you forget your wallet? Are you sure? Are you sure? Are you sure?? Are you sure? Are you sure??? *ARE YOU SURE?* As a pharmacist I can confirm that in my personal experience many of the children on antianxiety meds and Ritalin clones have parents who are anxious, irritable or have trouble waiting for anything. Well, this still raises a correlation/causation issue. It's anecdotal, but I've definitely witnessed this with my cousin. My aunt is extremely anxious and high-strung, and over the past 15 years I've watched her constantly reinforce those behaviors in my cousin. She's starting college next year, and I really hope that being away from her mother will help her learn to relax a little bit. I see the exact same thing with my sister and my niece. My sister has always suffered from anxiety and her daughter, who is 4, is the exact same way.  This is exactly what happened to me. After I started to become more independent and relied less on my parents, I realized I had never learned how to how to deal with stress. There is nothing more anxiety inducing than being anxious, or being around others who are anxious. I almost appears to be a kind of social reflex, along the lines of yawning.  The summary noted that they asked anxious kids to self-report their perceived anxiety level of their parent. That seems to be to be a large potential bias. Meaning that a inherently anxious person may tend to perceive their parental unit(s) as also anxious. Oh! Something I can comment on! I'm a marriage and family therapist who works with all sorts of issues, ranging from anxiety and other DSM diagnoses to drug addiction to couple and family problems. MFT (marriage and family therapy) stems from whats called family systems theory, which suggests that people involved in a family (or soceity) are all influenced by each other and cannot be looked at as only individuals. So, in relevance to this article, its important to recognize now everyone involved in the family influences each other. Not only do the parents influence the child, but the child will influence the parents. The way we treat this is focusing on the attachment of the child and the parent and how they structure themselves in terms of roles, rules, and hierarchy.  Now, of course these aren't the only two options and these options may not work in much more severe disorders, such as schizophrenia. CBT and DBT are effective if you want to correct the thought processes, but whole family involvement can have a much more profound impact.  I suffer from Anxiety terribly, but have fought through it my entire life, well a few years ago my son got the opportunity to pitch in a baseball game (he's an amazing athlete btw) he gets on the mound, throws a few pitches things are fine when all of a sudden he's grabbing his chest, can't breathe, we rush him to the ER...exercise induced asthma is what they came up with. Next game gets up to pitch same thing, hit him with the inhaler and he gets better but still cat go back out, next game same thing and we decide it's just too much for him and he's never pitched again. Then a few weeks ago he struck out, and I go up to the dugout to encourage him and he looks at me and is full blown crying and screams just leave me alone!! Not typical of him at a all. Also I noticed he surper nervous in big games during basketball, biting his nails looking scared. Lastly he is an amazing football player, one of the best in our area, so he is on a "club" traveling team playing some of the best teams in the country...and when he gets out there he's a little timid, and is not like himself at all, very passive not a game changer. At this point I'm thinking he has to be suffering from anxiety like me...what do you guys think? Doctor says it's probably the asthma and the other instances it's nerves but I'm thinking panic attacks. I'm not on medicine for my anxiety and I keep it in check around the kids. I figured it was genetic but knew a great deal would be environmental. When my anxiety hits I tell them. I try to be honest and open with them about it, so if they're feeling anxious they can tell me and we will work through this together.  I wish I saw this article two years ago. Both my parents are insanely anxious and closed off.  Now that I've learned to cope with my anxiety through fitness I've learned that they taught me how to be anxious about everything.  [deleted] I recall working in a grocery store as a teenager and watching a mom go over in great detail with her daughter how to choose fruit with a plastic bag and her hand. She explained about all of the germs on the fruit and how dangerous it was. I always wondered if this girl would grow up with some germ anxiety. I guess maybe huh? Interesting. 
 Does this include OCD, or just general anxiety in children?  My mother is shut in who would absolutely never let us have any guests come home. Today I still deal with social anxiety for situations when I have guests. Not, "oh, i'm kind of nervous, what do I server them." No, just straight up dread. I had no experience with it when I first had people over at my apartment. I'm still trying to work through that by inviting people over when I don't want to. Any time that a statement as black-and-white, all-or-nothing, single-cause as this one shows up, I seriously have to doubt the accuracy and neutrality of the people doing the study/writing the article. I mean, are they saying that genetics doesn't play a role?

P.S. It's early for me over here, maybe I just wasn't paying enough attention. But that's what I got from it.  So how does a person unwind that tension they learned from their parent? 

Edit: and after working with A LOT of kids, I've heard the phrase "apple doesn't fall far from the tree" so much... neat to have some science behind it.  I find this very interesting... my father is great at handling the long term stresses of life (job problems, finance problems, marriage difficulties, health, whatever you would normally expect) however he is TERRIBLE at handling acute stress in the moments of emergency.

By comparison I am perfectly calm in acutely stressful circumstances (a few of which have been life threatening) but have a really hard time dealing with long term stressors.  Maybe I saw where he failed at, and made a point of trying to make sure I didn't, accidentally overlooking the areas he's done well in. Misleading title is misleading. The point of the study isn't that there's no genetic component to anxiety. The point is that there is an environmental component in addition to the genetic component. We kind of already knew that, but whatever. It's genetic and environmental. Some genes cause people to have reduced GABA activity which contributes greatly to increased anxiety levels.  This is my main reason for not having children.  I don't want to pass on my mental issues be they genetic or environmental. I hope this will expand to a study on brain chemicals, that would truly clarify the need for medicinal treatment (SSRIs). Are they learnt behaviors just accelerated by a chemical imbalance? Or is there no chemical imbalance to begin with- strictly nurture? 

Going off on a rant - I'm on my fifth round of medication trials and I would really like to know if it's all for nothing. I don't think it is, there have been some that have worked, but answers would be nice! I'm afraid of talking on the phone. I know it's an irrational fear but it's really hard to do for me. When I was young my parents would always "screen" our calls and I was sent out of the room in case the person leaving a message said bad words. So, from the beginning, I learned that the phone ringing was something to be feared. Fantastic. Just wanted to say this is a very common fear. Very, very common. You're ok, one thing that has helped me a little was to keep doing it even though I mess up on occasion. Also be proud of yourself when you do it, reward yourself bc you deserve it. I believe it. My mom is SO anxious, freaking out about everything, and my sister and I both suffer from anxiety. I noticed my anxiety got worse after my mom went really nuts. This is good and all, but to say it's one rather than the other is misleading and negligent of prior research. About a year ago, I read a report saying that mice born of parents who were routinely scared throughout their lives showed a greater disposition toward anxious behavior as opposed to mice born of parents who were treated well.

I have no doubt that this study is fairly accurate but to completely shy away from findings in prior research isn't helpful to seeing the whole picture. Soooo the best thing for my children would be for them not to be raised by me. My mom once told me I have to think ahead before I plan something. Now, I can't get anything done because of this anxious infinite loop. This is fascinating. Seeing as neither of my parents exhibited anxious or neurotic tendencies it's a surprise I ended up the mess I am. My biggest fear with having kids is projecting my insecurities and anxieties onto them.  Question here
 
If a child lives in a family with anxiety &amp; depression for 14 yrs then is diagnosed as having depression then is moved out of that will the kid improve? Or at 14 is it too late? I have a thought about this.  We have found that bacteria plays a roll in how we behave.  [Lactobacillus rhamnosus](http://www.radiolab.org/story/197242-gut-feelings/) is a good example.  In mice without gut bacteria had generally more anxiety than mice given rhamnosus which was totally the chill group.  So we have also seen that environment such as a farms where people are exposed to more bacteria and have less issues with allergies.  These people generally have good bacteria count and number of strains vs a clean city people whom have a higher chance of having allergies.  I'd think that anxiety can be brought on by an overabundance of a group of bacteria that that can induce it.  When you're born your gut is sterile but your first dose of bacteria is during birth.  As a child you'll share many of the bacteria your parents had.  Could it be that bacteria that aren't good for us are controlling our anxiety triggers and how hard they hit.  Could these bacteria that your parents carry causing anxiety to be passed on to you by gut microbe sharing from different methods. This seems like a possibility to me worth looking into. [Article](http://www.nature.com/articles/nature14264.epdf?referrer_access_token=8m9fStWdDsQ_HJk_hhElAtRgN0jAjWel9jnR3ZoTv0P-E3fZUuFIj-CUa0bLJcr_Vejh5vv16DCjVTYxwnoYDCefTAsK0kAKZHsVuffYwO3iDQLKOIJNB2z-lUTqjRuR)

Pertinent Concluding Info:  "Although there are remaining challenges, these observations suggest that AAV-expressed eCD4-Ig could provide effective, long-term and near universal protection from HIV-1."

In this case this is not editorialized, the researchers are relatively confident in their developed technique.

Edit: Does anyone know about the safety of the use of Adeno viruses for the delivery of genes in humans?

Edit 2: Many thanks to /u/pok3ypup and /u/col_matrix for the nice explanations on AAV, and all of the great sources.

Edit 3: Corrected poor copy paste job of article txt. I work in a lab that uses adeno-associated (AAV) viruses for gene therapy. AAV is the virus being used in this study. Adenoviruses, albeit similar, are something completely different. AAV is called adeno-associated viruse because in the normal scenario, AAV requires infection with adenovirus (which causes the common cold) in order infect a human cell. Adenovirus is responsible for the [gene therapy disaster](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jesse_Gelsinger) that occured around the turn of the century that set back viral mediated gene therapy leaps and bounds. Jesse Gelsingers death (what I linked in the previous sentence) was caused by a systemic inflammatory immune response induced by the virus itself. Since this incident, there has been a lot of research into utilizing viruses that are safer and less immunogenic, and AAV is what this research has produced. Currently, there is a lot of research utilizing this virus, [including clinical trials](https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/results?term=adeno-associated+virus&amp;Search=Search), with many different strains being used. [Some strains of AAV have been modified to make them less antigenic in the human body](http://www.nature.com/mt/journal/v20/n2/full/mt2011237a.html) with a some really great success *in humans*. The big problem that we've encountered using AAV is not a systemic inflammatory response, but a normal immune response producing neutralizing antibodies to the AAV strain after repeated use (similar to what a vaccine does). These neutralizing antibodies are produced by the body specifically towards AAV and work to bind AAV in the blood stream inhibiting it's ability to reach the intended target and deliver the genetic payload. Theoretically a response such as this could result in a systemic inflammatory illness, but to my knowledge this hasn't been observed and AAV has been relatively safe.  Thank you for the information. This was helpful.  I should find out today if I'm accepted into [this](https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02317887?term=retinoschisis&amp;rank=6) trial Good luck! Juvenile Retinoschisis sounds terrible. :( I really hope you get in, works as designed and helps you and the rest of the participants! Thank you! I just got a call from them actually. They selected nine participants for the first round of injections and I didn't make that cut because they took more severe cases first. There's still a good chance that I'll make the next wave in the fall.  Good luck! This is all correct. Current research is largely focused on identifying different viral capsids (the protein shell encasing the viral DNA) in order to identify capsids that show high tissue specificity and low immune reactivity. Numerous different strains (serotypes) exist so by combining different elements from serotypes that show preferential properties we can identify optimal capsids. This is a large focus of my Ph.D lab.

The major downsides to AAV are the small capacity to deliver DNA, ~4.8 - 5kb, and (depends on how you look at it it can be a downside) is that AAV viral vectors don't integrate into the host DNA. This is why this study uses muscle injections as the cells are non-dividing, rather than modifying the blood stem cells. The lack of integration is preferential as you run no risk of the delivered DNA from inserting near/within a gene and driving cancer formation.
 You said kb, as in kilobits? Is that how DNA sequence sizes are measured?

 Kb, as in kilobases. Sorry, confusing overlap with notations between genetics and comp science. Happens to me all the time...  Kilobase-pairs, which incidentally are 2 kilobits each (there being four base pairs). I seem to recall that AAV can in fact integrate into the host genome, and that it integrates at a specific site, not really randomly like retroviruses do. AAV does have a natural integration site for AAV2 [AAVS1], but once you have replaced the AAV2 genome with your transgenes the site specific integration is magnitudes of orders decreased. So yes, you can have integration but your likelihood is dramatically reduced.  So integration is largely contingent on productive infection? I guess that would mean the Rep protein isn't packaged with the DNA, or is present in quantities too low for much integration to occur. Yeha, based on the small packaging size of AAV to fit in most transcripts you remove the rep and cap genes to a seperate helper plasmid so that you can produce the virus, but that they aren't expressed upon infection. So while it is possible to get integration, without Rep present your changes are minuscule.  [deleted] Yes, for multiple serotypes of AAV humans have neutralizing antibodies. If injected intravenously most of the vector will be neutralized and cleared before reaching the target tissues. In this case with intramuscular injections you would have inflammation and immune system activation against the cells that received the vector. Many labs are working to identify AAV capsids (the protein shell encasing the DNA) to obtain AAV capsids that won't illicit an immune response. 

Another obstacle is that of repeated injections as a second injection of a previously used capsid type could stimulate an immune response.  [deleted] Remember the AAV expressing the antigen are used to prevent HIV-1 infection not treat it. According to the authors of the study independent studies have shown that a similar immune response (with respect to antibody titres) could protect an individual for several years. This still has to be tested of course for this protein. So for a HIV-1 vaccine to be effective besides broad specificity it should produce a longlasting immune response, however this approach does not elicit an immune response like regular vaccines, so it should be re-administered once the protein is no longer expressed.. Perhaps by using different variants of the AAV's (with respect to the capsid) they can prevent the generation of a strong immune response against the AAV instead of HIV-1. But as previously mentioned it would be better to have an AAV that can be re-used and does not elicit an immune response.  Can you Eli 5 soluble receptors? This ecd4-ig ... It's an antibody, but it's not just blocking the cd4 site right?  I guess I just don't understand how it works.  http://news.sciencemag.org/biology/2015/02/stopping-hiv-artificial-protein

Normal HIV attachment:
&gt; First, HIVs own surface protein, gp120, docks on the cells CD4 receptor. This attachment twists gp120 such that it exposes a region on the virus that can attach to the second cellular receptor, CCR5. 

Antibiotic based vaccine mechanism of action:
&gt; The new construct combines a piece of CD4 with a smidgen of CCR5 and attaches both receptors to a piece of an antibody. In essence, the AIDS virus locks onto the construct, dubbed eCD4-Ig, as though it were attaching to a cell and thus is neutralized.

It's very brief, but I hope it points you in the right direction
 Right, it's not specifically an antibody.  It's the CD4 protein connected to a piece of an antibody, which is then also connected to another protein CCR5.  The cells creating the protein excrete it into circulation where it can interact with the virus. To follow up on some of the comments from u/pok3ypup.  Adenovirus vectors are absolutely still being pursued clinically.  The STEP trial here in the states used an adeno-based vector against HIV and failed spectacularly, but researchers continue to use different adenoviruses as bases for new vectors like rarer serotypes or primate serotypes.  They are definitely safe and have been widely used in trials specifically set up to determine safety.  How effective adeno-vectors will be for preventing HIV is still up for debate though I think they will never be the solution.

AAV vectors are also widely being pursued as gene therapy vectors and u/pok3ypup outlines a lot of the work in developing the vector to make it better suited for different uses.  This paper is on the HIV receptor mimetic, that is basically all it is a protein engineered to mimic residues of CD4 and CCR5 to bind HIV viruses and prevent entry.  So they are using AAV to deliver the DNA coding that mimetic attached to an antibody-like domain and make the host make the protein.  This is a very clever protein but has a lot of potential pitfalls before it is a real "universal cure."  It probably induces an immune response against the protein given enough time.  AAV vector-induced protein expression is not incredibly long-lasting.  No adaptive protection is induced by this vaccine so once protein expression wanes so does protection.  Because of the immune system will mount a defense against the vector, the vaccine only can be administered once to a patient unless you change the AAV background of the vector every time.  So you have to vaccinate at risk people with a one time use vaccine and hope that they are protected long enough that all their at risk behavior is all done.  In my opinion this technology probably will never see widespread use. Can the Adenovirus externals be modified to fly under the radar?  Like how different strains of the flu can infect the same person, can the virus be modified without changing it's theraputic effect?  From there a standardized schedule established to cycle through and keep from re-using the same 'strain' of AVV therapy twice on the same patient would allow continued use of this style of vaccine. The epitopes of viral proteins that are targeted by opsonizing antibodies are essential to the virus, so they cannot really be chanced with current technology and still yield a functional virus, replication incompetent or otherwise. So, the short answer is: not easily. But I would imagine that eventually this will be more plausible. Luckily nature has provided us with many different capsid and envelope proteins to work from/with, in designing such permutations.  Thank you so much for posting the actual article, what an interesting discovery.  My only thought is the cost of administration if this were to work.  If I'm understanding this right and eCD4-Ig is a protein wouldn't the cost of manufacture and distribution for this drug be incredible?  Also, the HIV would still be present in the blood stream but held in a conformation that keeps it inactive, so it's likely one would have to go in for a 'booster shot' of sorts right? The way the researchers are doing this is through horizontal transfer of the gene to the specimen by the AAV viruses. So the body would produce the protein. Yes, the HIV would still be present, if it were unable to infect T-Cells, then presumably the immune system could remove it. Unfortunately while your questions are great, that thinking is quite a bit further down the line then the stage this research is currently at.  Holy crap. The title isn't an exaggeration if the findings of their research are correct. While there is absolutely no doubt this is an exciting paper, this is not a cure all miracle treatment for all HIV (I actually recently presented this paper for a journal club, I'm a BMed Grad Student). Look at the paper's supplementary figures (Supp Fig 4a/b, 5a/b), they show the eCD4-Ig's relative in vitro IC50 and IC80 values for a variety of known SIV and HIV strains. The amazing thing about eCD4-Ig and it's variants is how many strains it's effective against which is not typical of HIV treatments due to certain intrinsic properties of HIV. You can see that in some cases however eCD4-Ig is no better than the current best option (bNAbs) and can sometimes be worse. You also have to consider that this uses an AAV (gene therapy) formulation which in this study is tested as a prophylactic, a good question is: will it still work as a treatment considering it's MOA? Gene therapy for healthy individuals can be a subject for debate.

This most exciting part of this paper can be seen in Fig 1 and 4 where they run an in vivo model using humanized mice and rhesus monkeys with a modified version of HIV (SHIV) and challenge them with multiple infections. It shows great survivability but only with a very small number of strains actually tested and without randomization. I don't want to get too into depth on my opinions and possible criticisms since it would take 5000 words to scratch the surface. You can look at [my ppt](http://imgur.com/a/H5jLl) if it interests you, but keep in mind this is only the slides and is completely lacking my actual talk which took about 2 hours.

Don't get me wrong, this is a big deal but it's also science journalism being a bit sensationalist. It's not like HIV researchers will pack it up and go home now. I would say this is a bit like the PDL1 cancer vaccine "cure" level of excitement. It's very promising and a novel approach to the disease but it's not exactly what the journalists make it out to be. As someone who barely understood ANY of that, thank you for your meaningful, well thought out comment about it.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Thanks for the input. Is this only viable for prevention of HIV infection or could this also be used to help treat an already infected person? Well that's the big question. Since this study didn't address this, I have no idea, this study only looked at eCD4-Ig as a "vaccine"-like prevention. I could speculate, due to its MOA (entry inhibitor), that it may slow disease progression, but due to the way HIV infections work, not actually cure it. We can't know for sure until some studies looking at this are done. Perhaps this study could lead to a new approach for a treatment but it is not one at the moment. [deleted] I really don't find the paper exciting as a cure or a vaccine which it will never be.  I really only found it exciting as it was a cool idea.  Can we take an antibody backbone and combine that with extensive knowledge of how antibodies bind the HIV glycoprotein and make a mimic to both CD4 and CCR5?  and is it as good as currently available bNAbs that are already getting ready for the clinic (like Balazs' work from Baltimore's group).  The first answer is yes they did, and the second is maybe not as you pointed out. This is essentially what I got out of it, it's a very cool novel method and may be the backbone study of many exciting things to come. Whether it's HIV or any other disease research is yet to be seen. There will be heavy Skeptics/Cynics in this thread when it gets big, and people furiously cherry picking text strings to argue about things they don't understand.  That said, I agree, this could be huge and it's appropriately presented.

Edit: Added Cynics. What most people call Skepticism is really Cynicism these days.  Wanting more data, clear statements of accuracy, and a good feel of certainty is Skepticism.  You can be appropriately Skeptical of this article but know that they are simply accurately stating the confidence of their findings while listing challenges, which they do.  Saying that you doubt it because of previous experience is Cynicism.   O_O This might be the first time I've felt excitement seeing an /r/science article on the front page that wasn't ruined by the top comment.  2 hours in and popular consensus is still positive.

pinch me No kidding. When i saw the title, i was 99% sure i was going to read the comments and see the top comment ripping the article to shreds. That being said, i appreciate people pointing out the flaws or issues in articles, because i'm not knowledgeable enough in most of the subjects to be able to find them myself, and i don't want to get false hopes for something. Gay male here. I want to believe. Don't hurt me /r/science. The largest hurdle will be cost. The currently licensed AAV drug, [glybera](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alipogene_tiparvovec) allowed in the UK right now, not the US, run at ~$1.6 million for a treatment. Luckily both treatments should only require absingle dose, but it still is significant. When you factor in the life long cost of HIV HAART drugs they would be close to similar cost wise though and gene therapy costs should reduce as it is becomes more widely accepted. &gt; run at ~$1.6 million for a treatment.

*Ouch*. It's seriously that costly? Off limits to most of us mere mortals.  Vaccines are different.

A treatment can be very expensive because of a relatively small pool of people who need it.  Less demand means much less is produced so the R&amp;D cost is less distributed.

The vaccine, meanwhile, can be taken by essentially everyone, so the demand will be high, much more produced, and the R&amp;D will be spread out further.

Edit:  Thanks for the gold, stranger! Also, if a vaccine's intellectual property holder refuses to license the IP at a reasonable cost, a country can break the patent and allow generic manufacturers to produce it.

This has happened in South America, India, and Canada previously. Okay for a thing like HIV, there shouldn't be a patent in the first place. Neither should there be for Hep C:

http://www.webmd.com/hepatitis/news/20140414/high-cost-hepatitis-c-drugs

TL;DR It's $1000/pill. Agreed.  Or at least a shortened patent so it doesn't discourage spending on research but still allows us to save lives.  Better yet, just a small royalty for a limited time. That's how American patents on drugs work now. You get 7 years to make a killing, and then ever schmuck with a chemical plant can sell it. &gt;at least a shortened patent so it doesn't discourage spending on research

A shorter patent period would discourage spending on research, since it reduces the amount of time a company is allowed to be the only manufacturer (and thus reap the higher profits from their product).  Why the fuck would any company research it if not for a patent? NIH grants. And unfortunately those are disappearing at an ever-quickening pace. That's an unreasonable request. Pharma companies to put _a ton_ of money into research, and they need to make the money back. Patents are the method we use to make sure that they actually can. It doesn't make sense to shell out millions/billions of dollars, and then have to give away your results for free. Highly trained researchers cost a lot of money, so does lab equipment and all the other stuff you need for research.

Now you might say "people first" and "but not giving this away for free means people will die". That's horrible, but I'm afraid that's the only way it will work. Would you rather have a vaccine/antidote that is expensive for the first few years, or no vaccine at all? Because if you take away the hope[^1] that the research actually pays off, you can be god damn sure that when the next big deadly disease emerges, no-one will be willing to front the money for research.

Now one solution would be to let all research be sponsored by the government (or charities or whatever). And in an ideal world that would be the solution. But currently, that is nothing as a pipe dream. 

[^1] Yes, hope. Almost all pharmacological research projects fail. Pharma companies essentially put tons of money into one failing project after another, hoping that the very few ones that actually make it all the way to a marketable drug will pay for the millions of failed ones. I mean sure the people who made it are entitled to a huge stack of cash if it works, but they shouldn't be allowed to keep it away from people whose lives it could save. Then who would develop it?

I personally don't have hundreds of millions to develop this medicine, and if I did, I wouldn't spend it when I don't even own what I create.

Ideally the government would be creating these vaccines/treatments, but they are losing the race to private corps. If this pans out (I reserve my skepticism until human trials show results), I will happily donate to a charity that pays to have individuals cured of AIDS. I thought vaccines were preventative meaning this one prevents you from getting HIV, it wouldn't cure you of AIDs It's also not a traditional vaccine. Either way, I'd donate to a charity that helps individuals cover the costs. By the sounds of how it works it could one day be a potential for anything attacking the immune system I would think. People abuse the term "vaccine" to describe anything that isn't JUST after-care.
It used to be that vaccines where rather something specific, namely a substance you gave people that trained their bodies to be recognise the "real" thing so early, that your immune system had a heads up, and thus would win the battle of reacting faster than the invader could reproduce.

Today we use it to anything that acts preventative (even if that isn't its only function).

This vaccine basically puts mittens on the fingertips that HIV uses to find its target. Doesn't really matter if you deploy the mittens regularly just in case, or teach your body to produce them for as long as those "taught" cells are around, or inject them when you are already HIV positive.

it prevents the virus from infecting further T-cells. Which means that as long as you still have "some" uninfected tcells or stem cells around, over a long period the infected ones die, and the resulting phages get "mitted".

And technically you don't "cure" Aids. Aids is what we call when your body can't defend itself any more. (which, btw isn't limited to HIV infection), Aids goes away when you get your immune system back. I think the cost will come down a lot quicker than we think in the long run.  I just think it's cool they're going in a different direction.  There may not be a feasible vaccine out there, so we may have to do things completely different. 

This may not work at all, but the little glimmer of success may be enough to drive hypothesis in the right direction. I feel like I hear about new vaccines for HIV every other month, so I have no reason not to be skeptical.  Reasons not to be skeptical:

1) Thoroughness of study - this isn't just an in vitro or a mouse study. This goes all the way from in vitro to non-human primates, which is the "next best thing" to humans. 

2) Efficacy in non-human primates - the further up the evolutionary chain you go (to humans) the less likely an intervention or therapy is to work. To get to non-human primates and show complete innoculation is incredibly impressive

3) Quality of researchers and journal - this is a little more esoteric but Nature is one of the "Big 3" in life science academic journals - Cell, Science, Nature. Sometimes if there's a press release about "something big" and you see it's in a lower tier journal, there's reason to be skeptical.

*EDIT* leave it to reddit to find fault with everything. The big three I'm referring to are journals specific to this field, addressing the whole "we see an HIV vaccine every month" mentality. In this field, the quality of the journal (although "quality" can be disputed, this is just a generality for people not in this area) can help readers discriminate. Second, I specifically mention the evolutionary "chain" or "tree" to humans - using context, the point above mentions that non-humans primates are the "next best thing" to humans. I meant as you progress from in vitro to closer related to humans evolutionarily, the results are more difficult to replicate as systems become more complex or are different.  4) the fact that I saw this on r/science first instead of r/futurology makes me take this article with less of a grain of salt. &gt; the "Big 3" in academic journals - Cell, Science, Nature [...]

Just a nitpick: Cell is specific to biological topics. Science and Nature are the huge scientific journals, then every science has its own specialised journals. I've always wondered this, and you look like someone who knows about this stuff,  but what ARE journals?  Are they like magazines that are published results/articles? Can anybody get a hold of these?  And how can you tell if they a reputable? I remember seeing about a Chinese journal scandal a while back.  Magazines that publish original research is about right. Some of them run on an open access format, meaning that anyone can access the articles, but most still run on (very expensive) subscriptions. In terms of reputation, it tends to be something you get a feel for, but you can look up a journals impact factor as a shortcut. The higher the impact factor, the better the reputation, although some subject specific journals can have a great reputation but a low impact factor due to the smaller audience.  Awesome!  Thanks for the reply.  This is why I love /r/science, I got about 10 PMs and they were ALL helpful.  Not one pun or silly answer!  Keep up the good work mods.  One more thing to mention that is crucial to the core of what it means to be an academic journal is the peer-review process. When these journals receive submissions, they forward those submissions to statisticians and leading scientists who are experts in the topics of the potential article. They scrutinize it carefully and most of the time reject the article and/or recommend revisions. Only after the research has passed this peer review is it published.

High-impact journals tend to have a much more strict peer-review process (or only accept the most notable of articles). &gt; In terms of reputation, it tends to be something you get a feel for, but you can look up a journals impact factor as a shortcut.

Just so we're clear, a journal's 'Impact Factor' is roughly a measure of how often articles from that journal are referenced in other journals. Journals are essentially weekly, bi-weekly, or monthly collections of research material (articles).  You can get access to them online (Cell press, AAAS, PNAS, Nature, ASBMB, ACS, ASM, AACR are a few big publishers in the medical fields), but they cost a fortune so most institutions (libraries/universities) will purchase licences for those on their network to access.

Some high-impact publications may be 'open source' or 'open access'.  Various PLoS journals, BMC (tho some of their journals really suck), PNAS has a handful of open access articles each release + all papers over a certain age (1yr? 2yr?) are free to the public.  Nature's open access journal is called 'scientific reports'.  The only issue is the quality of work isn't on par with the 'flagship' journals, but still useful resources. This is a fantastic question, and the answer is *complicated.*

   Journals started as a publishing scheme where you would literally write letters to the journal and the journal would publish it. Thats why when you read Nature papers from the 19th century, they start out "Dear sir," or whatever. Now, journals are managed collections of scientific paper-- think sophisticated lab reports-- and each journal carves out a niche in the scientific community in much the same way that individual scientists do. Today, journal subscriptions are usually held by university libraries, so the journal curates the new material and then the library subscribes, giving everyone on campus access to the newest material and all the online legacy articles. The costs are high so the average person cannot afford access to scientific papers.

   Science and Nature are often denigrated as magazines. They publish shorter papers aimed at a more general audience. Its an opprotunity to read about whale migration on one page and then flip to diamond nitrogen-vacancy spin physics at the same place. I've also seen them on sale at airports. The cost of Science, at least, is lower, and it has a lot of easier reading material before the manuscripts begin. Science and Nature have become the "Showcase" journals. I think of them as follows: the papers that change the way you think about science are supposed to publish in science. Major achievements, monumental discoveries, overturning old beliefs.

   Reputability is a huge problem facing scientific publishing. As the total number of scientists has mushroomed, theres only really two good metric for output: number of papers and impact of those papers. As a result, it makes sense that if you want to get ahead in the career (science is a career for humans, first and foremost) you need a lot of papers and bonus if they're high impact. How else will someone on a committee know whether you are the person to hire or someone else if they have no background in your specalized field? Well, X had 2 science papers and Y published 10 articles in the International Journal of Phrenology. Perhaps you can guess which one might get the job.

   The reputability becomes a problem because the number of journals has EXPLODED at the same time that open access has hit the scene. Theres lots of great chinese science, for instance, but i'm simply not going to bother publishing in chinese journals. No one I'm targeting reads those journals, so why publish there? and more importantly, if I don't want to publish there, why should i review any of the papers? thanks but no thanks, guys.  

   There are a LOT of great arguments for open access publishing. However, what we're seeing emerge is starting to look a lot like a 2 tiered system (in the physical sciences, Plos one seems to have traction in the life sciences?) where you have the big name established journals that everyone wants to publish in, and you have the open access and small journals that start to look like paper mills because of the sheer volume of material that passes through them. Its a seperation that emerges between "original" science and "incremental" science. I do a new reaction no ones ever heard of with molecule X. I publish a big JACS paper and run off to my next position. Someone follows in my footsteps and does it with molecule Y. They publish a more incremental paper and don't get as much attention. edit: some people argue that incremental science is unfit to be published. But don't those scientists also deserve to get papers when the entire metric for the profession is based on papers? 

Anyway, I could write on this all day, and I expect a lot of people to have a lot of complex opinions on this subject.

With highest regard,

your nemesis
 Yes, they are like magazines that publish articles, case reports, letters, etc. In general, no one gets a text copy because it's all online now. You usually get access to them through a university and hospital, otherwise they cost money for a subscription. I think technically anyone can start one, but it is very well known what are the best journals in a specific field. Nature is considered one of the best, of not the best, science journals. JAMA or New England Journal of Medicine are top medicine journals.  They are basically magazines where a team of respected scientists reviews all the submissions, verifies results, etc. If it passes the peer review process, they publish it. As far as which journals are reputable, it's just a reputation thing - Nature is probably the most respected journal out there, but there's a lot of good journals and a lot of really bad ones. Some scam journals have even made money by charging people to publish articles, without any meaningful review process. So you do kind of have to know who's who. As far as reading the articles, most journals allow online access for a fee, or subscription services - just about every major university has a full subscription, so if you have an article you want to read you can usually drop by your local college and get it for free. That could just mean that they're making a lot of progress recently.  This is the case for treatments for MS, for example (there have been massive strides the last few years and it seems like there's a new development every day). I always come to these threads to read why they *won't* work.  Very encouraging to come into one where everyone seems to have blown their minds. Exactly.

Skepticism is a methodology. A skeptic says "You need to do X, Y, and Z to establish your claim." Skeptics are actively invested in proving the claim. Unfortunately, spurious claims multiply more quickly than does proof, which leads to cynicism.

Cynicism is a heuristic. A cynic says "I've heard this claim before, repeatedly, and it's never been correct; there's no reason to look into the latest latest instance of the claim." Cynics are actively invested in protecting their valuable time - they don't want to waste any of it investigating a claim that is likely not true. 

**TL;DR:** A skeptic will accept your claim if you present sufficient evidence. A cynic will look at your claim if you present extraordinary evidence. You say that like it's a bad thing. How many amazing headlines have you seen in this thread? How many of them have panned out? It's not like people don't want this to be true. Science is supposed to be approached with skepticism.  There's a difference between Skepticism and Cynicism, and that's often lost with people.  I trust the people with degrees, I just meant to point out (with virtually assured chances) that people will throw out "Everyone has always been wrong before" and when the get challenged by a SME they'll just go google text strings which match what they say.  Everyone's opinion is not equal, and while I value educated dissent, your average dissent on reddit is not very qualified. [deleted] [deleted] I was in the audience for this presentation at CROI (Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections) this year. Everyone I've spoken to about it (WITHIN THE FIELD, mind you) thinks that if it works, we've got a vaccine(like thing). This is not really a vaccine as much as it is a form of gene therapy. Saying gene therapy would freak the public out so it's dubbed a "vaccine" since that's the source of its delivery. Source: researchers in Dr. Rafi Ahmed's vaccine center.  I think it's fair to say vaccines have done their fair share of freaking out the public lately Yeah, please use "gene therapy". "Human GMO." [deleted] "Oh no! That sounds scarier than having HIV!" "GMO vaccines" I can already feel the angry mob response. "Genetically modified Vaccine of GMO Gene Therapy" [deleted] [deleted] Unfortunately the word "vaccine" is currently freaking out the same fools who would freak out about "gene therapy." Except there are actual risks involved with gene therapy.

See: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18688285, Jesse Gelsinger, etc. There are technically actual risks to immunizations as well. A tiny minority can have an adverse reaction to them, but that doesn't mean they're dangerous or bad. Immunization would be more accurate.  To be honest, there is a lot more danger when it comes to gene therapy than Vaccine. Usually, side effects of the vaccines are alleviated when the body gets rid of the vaccine and no more vaccine is introduced into the body. In cases of cross-immunization, that can be treated.

Gene therapy, on the other hand, is directly changing DNA in the cells, so unless those cells are quickly replaced, the treatment will be ongoing, and any side effects from those genes are even harder to treat. On top of that, when you mess with genes, you are introducing mutations. Those mutations can have catastrophic consequences.

So this gene therapy against HIV might give someone cancer. Serious question, what's the possibility of any of the existing strains evolving into something that is not treatable by modern medicine? That's happening constantly with the current anti-retroviral drug regimens, but having a completely new ~~curative~~ preventative treatment in the arsenal would be a game changer. Preventative, not curative. HIV has loads of money going into it. HIV will be curable within our lifetimes.

AFAIK though, HIV more than likely won't be able to develop mechanisms to resist this without it compromising it's target site/effectiveness.

Much scarier are the strains of bacterial infections "super bugs" with which there are near zero developing treatments for: *N. gonorrhea, S. aureus, A. baumanii, P. aeruginosa,* TB, etc. [deleted] Published in February. Haven't heard of it til now. Obviously these things take years but.. any progress since then? Well, the study with monkeys was posted in February. The reason we are seeing it again now is because the peer review process has led the researchers to be confident in saying the compound works! You have the timeline of peer review way off.  The study was actually submitted to Nature in June of 2013.  The review process likely said that they needed to conduct more studies in order for the study to be accepted.  The article was resubmitted and accepted in January of 2015 and published in February 2015.  Yes, science really does take a long time.
 Is this true though? The BBC article is also from February. It seems like this is (relatively) old news.

Edit: BBC article from Feb that links to this same Nature article: http://www.bbc.com/news/health-31511244

Edit 2: I guess what I'm asking is: is Reddit just slow to pick this up or is there some other (more recent) source we should be reading? &gt; Published in February. Haven't heard of it til now.

As a scientifically clueless natural cynic... Reddit, could you ELI5 why this isn't actually monumentally amazing news?

Like, it's not even on the front page of CNN. We've got "Students Allege Forced Vaginal Exams" and "No Wedding for Bristol Palin" instead.

Edit: Thanks all. I want to believe. This is monumentally amazing news, but before the peer review process was unable to falsify the claims, it would have been premature to make a huge deal out of it.  Now that they have been unable to falsify their claims, it's more of a big deal.  It's not so much the news ignoring it, it's more of science doing its thing, slowly pushing forward and being careful to not go too quickly lest it become reckless. When you work in science as a researcher, everything you want to publish has to go through a process called "peer review". In this process, other researchers in your field look at your findings and decide if it's any good. The article about their findings concerning HIV in monkeys only got released in February, which means the Peer Review most likely only has been finished now, which is why most scientific papers haven't published anything about it yet.

As for CNN, they have released multiple articles over the past few years talking about the possibility of a vaccine for HIV ([quick Google search query](https://www.google.at/search?client=opera&amp;q=site%3Acnn.com+HIV+vaccine&amp;sourceid=opera&amp;ie=UTF-8&amp;oe=UTF-8)) and it's quite possible that they just haven't seen the most recent news on the topic. Michael Farzan! I recognize him. This compound was posted here back in February when it was successfully tested on monkeys! I was so excited when I heard about it then, and I'm even more excited to know that it's working now. This is a great day for science.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] This could potentially save millions of lives all over the world. I just hope every part of the world will be able to have access to it.  Hopefully Bill and Melinda Gates can help with this. I don't doubt that if this really does prove to be successful that they would fund it to every human they could.  Free HIV vaccination with ever purchase of Windows! Hey I'd actually buy windows for once! [deleted] Any thoughts on therapeutic potential for already infected primates? [deleted] Sure, but the life of a WBC isn't so long anyway, and this therapy should keep viral load low, right? I would think that once all the WBCs turn over, the virus should be eliminated, assuming the treatment is able to prevent the infection of newly differentiated WBCs. [deleted] if theyre altering the DNA so that blood cells can fight the HIV virus, could this cure people who are already infected? wouldn't you need to alter the DNA of  A LOT of cells to do that? How is that feasible? This is just inserted DNA in a small group of cells. This will cause smooth muscle cells to make a special protein that goes into the circulation and blocks HIV from entering T cells by mimicing their receptor. You don't need to change the DNA of a large number of cells. You just need enough to secrete sufficient amounts of protein. Wouldn't your cells replicate with the DNA?  Not all cells replicate frequently or at all.  Would bone marrow work to carry the altered dna? If it divides into all of the blood cells you'd have thousands of hiv-fighting cells. I'm also just a dog baby sitter, so I don't know shit No, this wouldn't work.  The problem with AAV vectors is that it does not integrate into  the host's DNA.  It is a separate string of DNA that does not divide with the parent cell.  As the cells inside the marrow divides constantly, you would be diluting the AAV with every round of replication until it is no longer effective.  This is why they are choosing to inject the muscle cells that do not divide often. Does this mean I'd have a real excuse to skip leg day? Heart cells for example
 That's exactly what gene therapy is. Think about how a virus works - a virus is basically a bio-mechanical DNA injector - it attaches to a cell and injects its payload. It works by modifying the DNA of the cell it is injecting into so that the cell's machinery is then co-opted to produce more virus DNA and package that DNA in an injector .. and the cycle starts anew.

So take a virus and modify it so that it injects new DNA that confers resistance to HIV. Try to make that virus limit the amount of collateral damage it causes as much as possible, make it play nice with the immune system so that it doesn't get mopped up, or so that it doesn't cause a fatal immune reaction.. and voila. You've cured HIV. Let the virus roam around free in your entire body, going cell-to-cell rewriting your DNA, and now you've got HIV resistance.

At least, that's the basic idea, obviously it's a lot more complicated than that: it's very difficult to find/build the right virus to do your injections, to not get mopped-up by the immune system, to not cause fatal immune reactions, to alter DNA, to alter DNA to confer HIV resistance, etc. That's true for viruses, but these AAV vectors don't replicate.  The vectors are only the DNA for the eCD4-Ig inside the viral capsid.  Whatever the initial AAV virions are, that's what's going to deliver the DNA payload.  Once inside the cell, it will produce just the eCD4-Ig, not more AAV vectors. You can use viruses to inject the dna into existing cells, much like how hiv works in the first place.  [deleted] From what I understand, the DNA-sequence altered produces a molecule that binds and inhibits the HIV from infecting cells. If this is correct, it won't help cells that are already infected. But it would allow someone that is infected to not get more sick? Sorry that is some pretty poor wording, but it would stop HIV from becoming AIDS correct?  It's uncertain. They're causing muscle cells to produce an antibody-like construct that neutralizes virions floating about. It's uncertain if this would work for HIV+ people because people with highly neutralizing antibodies still need to be on ART, either because there is too much virus to neutralize or their virus has mutated away from those Ab as well. It's complicated, but there is hope. I think this is plausible down the line. Even if it wasn't a true cure, but an effective treatment not as harsh as HAART it would be a massive step in the right direction.  Immunologist here - the treatment is not a vaccine. It's closer to gene therapy in some regards. Happy if it can work in humans, but please get your title corrected. A fascinating approach and very thorough methodology. I'm interested to see how they plan to develop this technique further, as gene therapies are still very uncommon and are not well-accepted by the lay public. Assuming this technique could be successfully commercialized, it could be a big turning point for changing public perception on genetic therapies. Would this help those already infected? Yes, potentially.
http://www.bbc.com/news/health-31511244

&gt; As there was also protection against very high doses, equivalent to the amount of new virus that would be produced in a chronically infected patient, the researchers believe the approach may be useful in people who already have HIV. It looks like all this info is from February. Have there been any updates since? [deleted] [deleted] This will get buried but whatever. The problems with this technique: -
A - this is gene therapy. Aka putting a brand new gene into the human genome. Producing a protein that is unnatural for your body. This is a whole new ball game from your run of the mill vaccine. You will not have people lining up for this. In high risk individuals you would say it was worth it but

B-As they go onto to say in the paper the monkey produced an immune response against the anti-HIV protein. If they kept this trial going for longer it is likely that the hosts immune response would keep this out of circulation where it is needed for its anti-HIV activity. Thusly leaving the monkeys at risk of infection again. 

C - they challenge their monkeys by injecting the virus directly into circulation. Whilst this is a good model for testing transmission via intravenous drug users. The vast majority of people are infected via mucosal barriers such as during sex. It is well know that stopping the virus at this stage is significantly harder than simply stopping it in circulation. It's more difficult to get the anti-HIV protein to this area of the body. Thusly the virus can just get around the anti-HIV protein at this stage and into a cell. 

Don't get me wrong this is a very nice paper but there are major hurdles that they have still yet to test.  A- AAV-based gene therapy is cutting edge stuff but we're already seeing human trials successfully treating diseases such as hemophilia.  A vaccine/therapy seems like a reasonable next step that I'm sure many HIV patients would jump at the chance to be part of a trial.

B- Interestingly, according to the paper these eCD4-Ig are actually less immunogenic than other HIV broadly neutralizing antibodies.  Why that is they couldn't say.  The problem with AAV gene therapy isn't generally with the therapeutic target, it's with the AAV capsid itself.  However, one workaround is to transiently suppress the immune system to allow the virus a chance to infect the cells before becoming eliminated.

C- While exposure from a needle stick injury is pretty low, we're talking about a direct injection of HIV, which mitigates any mucosal barriers.  More importantly, they are injecting lethal doses of HIV (4/4 macaques in the control experiments died) and are able to show full protection with the eCD4-Ig (all 4 macaques lived).

I agree that this therapy may be several years from being ready for the public, but it seems to me that they've performed all the necessary experiments to warrant human clinical trials.  My biggest worry is the cost of these therapies.  Making recombinant AAV vectors ain't cheap. So it seems like every few months there's an article like this. For the less scientifically literate, is this anything to get excited by? Are any of the stories we have seen in recent years anything to get excited by? The quality of the test subjects (non-human primates) and the quality of the journal.

It's like getting the news from Reuters or the NY Times instead of Buzzfeed. Thanks. In 'lesser' studies, what would be used instead of non-human primates? And if this is a viable vaccine, what sort of timescale would it be until it is tested on humans? Someone else could probably answer more accurately, but you start with lesser animals and work your way closer to humans, if that type of testing makes sense for the study.

You might start with rats and then move on to the primates for something like this (which is a gene therapy treatment).

IF you are still seeing success in the primates, there's a lot of reason to be excited about human trials. Great, thanks for answering my questions!  The medical field is so interesting right now.  Different cancers so close to a cure.  Successful lung transplants.  Possible Lung Cancer treatment in Cuba.  Blindness cures.  Haven't heard much about paralyzed treatment.  I get anxious with a $1 bet in black jack.  Couldn't imagine folks with a deadly disease and a potential life saving treatment around the corner. From what I gathered, its really conditioning for human muscle cells to pump out a protein that inhibits HIV latching on to new victims, not a vaccine. In that case could it benefit ones who are already infected? Maybe not a cure but inhibit the development? Looking forward to a cure for this terrible disease, my uncle died 2 years ago because he had hearth attack,  he had AIDS. He got infected in the early's 80's when he was almost graduated in Electronic Ingeniering, since he knew he got infected, his whole life changed. He had so many mental diseases that he didn't continued the university and he just stayed at home doing nothing, no friends, no social contact. 

He was a genius in maths and so many things, just one error of doing unprotected sex with another person changed all. 

I am really looking forward for a vaccine, for the cure of everyone who have HIV/AIDS.  [deleted] Potentially groundbreaking stuff! It would be awesome to prevent others from being affected with HIV like I am. It's very hard to live a happy life and find a companion when you live with the proverbial scarlet letter on your life :( Would this vaccine become permanent? I mean couldn't the HIV virus adapt itself through natural selection? Why are we only hearing about this now if the article was published in February? Surely this would be huge news? How do you test a vaccine like this on a small number of humans?

Do they first test it for side effects and then roll it out on a larger scale to see what effect it has? [deleted] I'm starting to think that I was born 50-100 years too early. All this medical and technological advancement is making me shiver. But it's nothing compared to what we will be able to do in a few decades. Doesn't this mean that because of how quickly HIV reproduces that there will eventually be more strains that will avoid the vaccine? It seems like every week we hear of some amazing new discovery but a year or two later, nothing comes of it.

Is this going to be another one of those cases or is this the "real deal"? Since literally no one will see this post (2 AM and end of a posts cycle) I wanted to come out with some info from the UofM neurology clinic. 

They have been able to block the strain of HIV in lab mice by having the "vacc" work in the nerves and the receptors instead of directly affecting the blood. I don't know how it works really so this is all jarglemesh, but it was a really cool finding. They are getting some 20mil for the study.  For those of us with the CCR5 double delta-32 deletion, what would this adeno virus do? Well the antibody that delivers the treatment is an anti-cd4 antibody. Therefore, it's binding on the cd4 cell receptor. The ccr5 peptide being delivered (at least to my understanding) is targeted to HIV's ccr5 binding protein. It's effectively preventing the virus from attaching to cell surface, which is key to its replication. Are you actually a homozygous del ccr5? I don't know what this virus would do, but you should be highly immune to HIV as it is

Edit: spelling  I have a BS in physiology so I'm far from an expert. But my understanding of the paper (I can't access the full text until I go through my university network) is that the protein they are using mimics the receptor that HIV binds to and then prevents it from acting in its normal ways on the cell. So the normal CCR5 receptors should make no difference in the action of the proteins.  [deleted] [deleted] Why not link to the ACTUAL article?

http://www.bbc.com/news/health-31511244 Why not link to the actual paper?

http://www.nature.com/articles/nature14264.epdf?referrer_access_token=npJKxWxydeenHxbO27RQTtRgN0jAjWel9jnR3ZoTv0P-E3fZUuFIj-CUa0bLJcr_lg1fYPbq6QNJeYXU8M3bKx1Xb-0yzssNPr5yTNYdgwf4pLwl_YlGiWxjtC9BZnKq_KzyWsWJBGwnZuwuXttUAimf0OXOIonTiOsMGoti3c0%3D&amp;tracking_referrer=www.bbc.com It costs $32 and is a dense, highly technical biology research paper. I'm sure every Redditor will have it read by this evening. [deleted] [deleted] Becuase this article goes more in depth to the actual sciene of it for a better understanding.
 Nature is behind a paywall for most folks. I can get to it, but I thought the mainstream redditor would prefer a summary. When do we make the distinction between using a rock as the tool and making the rock into a tool? When the rock has been refined to be better at its job. Like if there's evidence the middle of it has been chipped away so that it can be lashed to a stick and swung as an axe or if one of  the edges has been sharpened for cutting and other edge smoothed for fitting in the palm.  I'm trying to learn flint knapping right now, and the experience has given me a whole new respect for our ancestors. It isn't easy and if I had to rely on it to provide food I would starve quickly. My professor told us that flintknapping aided in the evolution of foul language.
It's easy to see why, I left that class with bloody hands every time. So you especially can imagine how skilled hunters must've had to have become using stone-tipped weapons. Hungry and half naked, you don't just shrug it off one of those getting stuck in a bear running away.

Have you ever tried obsidian? I hear it was all the rage back in the day because of its desirable qualities, one being how easily it can be shaped. &gt;Have you ever tried obsidian? I hear it was all the rage back in the day because of its desirable qualities, one being how easily it can be shaped.

Obsidian is really easy to knap but it's so sharp and flakes so easily that I cut myself nearly every single time I use it. Different kinds of chert are a lot harder to shape, but there is usually less blood. I really like that word. CHERT My favorite term is describing small archaeological remnants:  sherds. Ermahgerd, sherds! TIL a new word. Thanks Reddit, you knowledgeable fux  Chert is actually a microcrystalline form of Quartz just like Chalcedony.  I don't like that word. *Chal*cedony. :/ &gt;Thanks Reddit

The kind of website to give you the chert of its back. How do you find chert? I generally just go in the mountains and look for darkish (sometimes reddish, sometimes grayish, sometimes blackish, sometimes greenish) rock that has a homogenous, even consistency. Then I hit it with another rock (one that's thicker than the material I'm striking), and if it fractures in a predictable pattern I use it.

The important thing about flintknapping is that the material you're knapping with has a homogenous consistency (like glass), otherwise it will fracture along predetermined cracks in the rock and not work.

I live close to a nice park with lots of chert forming in limestone and chalk, but the problem is getting it out. I can't exactly go up there with a pickaxe, so I just walk around the areas where it's forming and just look around. 
 If you asked someone 3.3 million years ago (assuming they could answer) they'd probably say something like that verbatim. That's the coolest thought that's passed through my head all month. I'm an archaeologist. Those thoughts are my life. Just today we found a hearth dating back 8,000 years. And I found a house dating back 5,000. Well, I found its floor. The rest burnt down a long time ago. And so much chert.  [deleted] [deleted] The term for the fracture pattern is "conchoidal". [deleted] Obsidian is insanely sharp. There is no way to appreciate it properly without lacerating yourself on it accidentally, which I'm guilty off. Fortunately it was just a minor but very fine slash. It pays to have a friend who works in geological studies. Geology rocks! ["Good quality obsidian fractures down to single molecules which can produce a cutting edge 500 times sharper than the sharpest steel scalpel blade"](http://obsidian-scalpel.blogspot.com/2012/12/surgeon-use-for-obsidian-scalpel-blades.html)

&gt;Modern, and very recently-developed synthetic diamond scalpel blades have a "sharpness" of 3 nanometers or better. This is achieved through plasma-polishing. This gives a blade edge of about 30 angstroms. 1 angstrom, is about one atom's width. These modern blades have been processed to be more sturdy than before, without as much brittleness problems than earlier blades.

&gt;However, the obsidian that our ancient ancestors were using on spear and arrow points and cutting implements (etc.) were better than 200 angstroms, and all they did was flake it off with a bone or antler club. 

200 of an atom's width. Pretty damn sharp. They used to (still do?) make scalpels with obsidian edges. http://obsidian-scalpel.blogspot.com/2012/12/surgeon-use-for-obsidian-scalpel-blades.html

&gt;However, the obsidian that our ancient ancestors were using on spear and arrow points and cutting implements (etc.) were better than 200 angstroms, and all they did was flake it off with a bone or antler club.

1 angstrom being the width of an atom Those obsidian clubs the Aztecs used might not have been a match for steel swords and armor, but man, can you imagine getting hit by one of those things? Apparently able to behead a horse in one swing.  I'm slightly dubious about this claim (although I've heard it before). I'd like to see a Myth Busters type demonstration to back it up. There would be a lot of shrapnel. Tiny, super sharp lava rocks strewn throughout the wound. Not all atoms are 1 angstrom. They'll range from 0.5 up to 2 angstroms (at least the calculated values will). Yeah, in a lithics class, we were using obisidian to make flakes.  You can legit shave with a scrap flake of obsidian.  We tried. &gt; Geology rocks!

you guys are not that far from engineers in humor. but your work is just as important and amazing. Please don't give me credit for assisting in the important work of geologists. It was merely a friend of mine in that field who let me check out the obsidian samples he had. I'm a terrible joker from another discipline that is anathema to mention on Reddit... quite remote from engineering.  [deleted] Plus you can kill white walkers with it.  [deleted] I haven't tried obsidian yet. I have some beautiful black obsidian with red streaks from Glass Butte in Oregon and more from Three Sisters Wilderness, but I want to know what I'm doing before I start destroying things. See if tou can't getvsome pachuca from Mexico. That stuff is fantastic. It helped build an empire.  Were they using them as spear-tips? I got the impression that tools of this type were used as hand-axes. Obsidian is sharp (can be anyway), but it dulls relatively quickly compared to other materials. So you would need to constantly shape it or replace your tools after a few times of use. Learning flint knapping would be easier if you had literally nothing to do all day except look for food or chill.  You would be a master of sticks and stones by now if you weren't on reddit. Been knapping for a few years myself. There's a knack to it alright but it's so damn satisfying to get better at! Been napping for a few years myself. There's a knack to nap alright but it's so damn satisfying to get better at! Learning to knap? Look up youtube user paleomanjim Don't sell yourself too short. You would have to adapt and survive. I highly doubt you would cry yourself to sleep everynight until you starve if you would be put in that position. True, true.  I'd just get gored by the boar I was trying to hunt.   To be fair you didn't grow up learning how to do that, or how to hunt. Nonetheless, it must've been a pain in the ass. I agree, I took a clay throwing class and man that shit is tough. I can't believe people figured it out and made amazing things with it.

 I figure I'd last about 14 hours in a temperate forest full of food. Makes sense.   You've clearly never seen tools made by homo habilis. Their "tools" more closely resembling big rocks with evidence or grinding and crushing. Homo habilis was definitely not swinging any axes attached to sticks or bones. They would use rocks to crush bones to access the marrow, and there has actually been evidence out there for a while that habilis may not have been the first tool user--at time of discovery? Yes, but older camp sites are being found semi regularly. The earliest axes were achulean hand axes which are essentially wedge shaped rocks. I don't believe habilis used those, but I could be misremembering. I'm a biological anthropology MA, but I haven't studied this stuff is about 2 years.  Correct, in this case we see several of the stones have been made into choppers or cutting tools. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I've been to the site, and seen the tools mentioned. If you guys want to see them in 3d, along with time lapses of the site, check out http://africanfossils.org/ I can't be the only one that finds it extremely interesting that anatomically modern humans lived amongst and hunted Pleistocene mega fauna such as Glyptodont, a car sized armadillo, mammoths, and Smilodon's.  I've been fascinated by this myself. What if you took someone from our era and raised them amongst those tribes? What if you took a baby from that era and raised it now? What would it be like? Fun hypotheticals like that keep me awake at night. They would probably adapt nicely. Anatomically modern means we're made of the same stuff. Which is what makes the thought so interesting. How little man himself has really changed -but the world around him was transformed so much that the backdrop of other animals has been constantly evolving, going extinct, and raising up into new forms. I also wish I could peer through a time-window and see our early selves and tell them "you have no idea what you will become one day." I'm sure future us is thinking that about you :)
 And hopefully you too, unless you're just a figment of my imgaination ;)

But I think about that too. If we do survive on into the distant future, as we have endured from so long ago in the past, we cannot then even conceive of the future of mankind 500,000 years from now. look how much we have changed in just 6 or so thousand years! And so, someone, somewhere, hundreds of thousands of years from now, will look at our artifacts and wish they know what we were like.

And we get to know.

 Well, first we need to make sure we don't utterly destroy our planet before these awesome things happen. This line of thought is really exciting though! That's what scares me... 3.3 million years we've been fiddling around and our impact had been negligible but the last 200 has been catastrophic.  The window sets a nearby bush on fire. Your message is not entirely received correctly Glyptodons lived up until about 10 thousand years ago, most wooly mammoths went extinct around the same time. 

Would have been cool to have a glyptodon as a pet I've heard rather compelling arguments that we hunted them all to extinction. How do they date these things? The age of a rock and the time since that rock was turned into a tool could be quiet different.  Date fossils contained within the same strata that the tool was buried in. My father who is very religious gets hung up on dating, do you have any good sources to clearly explain why and how we're able to very accurately date fossils? I understand the half-life of radioactive properties and carbon dating, but I feel thats a bit too technical to explain.  I'm no scientist, but [she is](https://youtu.be/J2GNJ6tfbY0). What I have never understood is how the uranium in different layers have decayed at different rates. If I understand correctly, all the uranium on the Earth was formed in supernovae, so it's not like some is really any "newer" than any other. Does the heat or density of the Earth's core (and/or mantle) disallow it's decay? It's actually [a little cooler/trickier than that.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uranium-lead_dating)

The short of it is that they're actually looking for how much lead is integrated into zircon crystals. That's important because zircon crystals will include uranium and thorium, but reject lead. That means for any formed crystals with lead, the source of the lead must have been from the decay of uranium or thorium. 

Since the crystals obviously don't form until the elements in question aren't in the Earth's core, you can figure out how old the layer is using the math from the Wiki article. Evey time uranium melts to a liquid state and cool back to a crystalline state, the clock "resets" so if this uranium is ejected from a volcano and deposited in ash, it is safe to assume that it was molten during eruption and thus "good as new." This was awesome, thank you! If you father is anything like the religious people I know he isn't interested in knowing how the dating is scientifically valid as it doesn't corroborate what he already "knows". Interesting. Can a fossils age be affected by the rocks it was in?  Stratigraphic ranges, Fossil A lived during this time, fossil B lived during a similar time. If both fossils are in the same rock bed then overlapping the dates they lived narrows down your answer. Almost like the middle of a venn diagram  Yep! That's a very popular way of dating, taking the age estimates of the soil/rock/fossils above and below the found fossil can provide a decently accurate age of the fossil (I believe it's called stratiology). Another way of dating is looking at the amount of (slightly) radioactive Carbon-14 remaining in a fossil and estimating its age through the amount that has decayed since it was deposited into the ground. Carbon 14 probably wouldn't be terribly useful for the time spans that we are talking about though because its half life is only ~5700 years so there would be almost none remaining.  Other radioactive isotopes might be used however. Very true, forgot to mention that. I believe that potassium-argon dating is one of the methods used for extremely old fossils, because its half life is over a billion years. But that is about as far as my knowledge goes. Sr-Sr is common as well GoofyPlease asked it the fossil's age can be affected by the rock it was in, and the answer to that is actually no. The age is the age, and the rock that it's in doesn't change how old the fossil is, or how quickly the radioactive isotopes in the fossil decay (thus the age it appears to be when it's dated).

So no, the fossil's age can't be affected by the rock that it's in.
 Well we likely aren't talking rock in this case but soil. What is dated is either other nearby artifacts or the soil layer it was found in. Lots of questions here about the age of fossils. In East Africa, fossils are typically dated using radiometric dating. Carbon dating is radiometric dating, but it doesn't work for anything older than about 40,000 years. These stone tools were probably dated using argon-argon or potassium-argon methods. 

The 'layers' that we date (not the fossils themselves) are actually derived from ancient volcanic eruptions. They contain, for example, potassium atoms that slowly decay into argon over time at a steady rate. If we can calculate that rate, we can measure the ratio of potassium to argon and estimate the age. The cool part is that using different isotopes yield the same results, which strengthens the dating estimates. 

Source: Ph.D. student in biological anthropology  As others have mentioned, you can date the stratigraphic units in which the object is buried within (with fossils - relative dating, or with ash beds or other units - absolute dating). However, you can also date the object itself. Using typical radiometric dating techniques would not prove useful as you would be dating the age the minerals within the rock and not the age of the tool. You could, however, use optical dating techniques such as [thermoluminescence](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thermoluminescence_dating) (TL) and [optically stimulated luminescence](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optically_stimulated_luminescence) (OSL). These techniques basically date the last time in which the object was exposed to the sun, or to put it another way - the date when the object was buried. If this is true it is a remarkable discovery.  It seems even now we continue to have our preconceptions and understanding of history radically altered. I wouldn't call them preconceptions. They're mostly deductions based on the data we have. If the data changes, our conclusions change appropriately. Agreed. It's not like we think stone tools could not have been made this far back, we just don't have the proof to support the claim.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Remarkable isn't the right word. Insane is.

Hominins possibly made tools 700,000 years longer than previously known. They made tools 350x longer than the time between Julius Caesar and the iPhone. 

Edit: Humans -&gt; Hominins Yea I'm glad I'm not the only one in awe of that huge difference. 700 years is just as mind blowing as 70 to me. I can't even grasp it. 700,000 years of making stone tools? They had to be really smart I wonder if they had language and how they thought about things.  What I find mindblowing is simply how slow progress was. So for about 3.3 million years, tools were super simple hand powered stuff and then in a miniscule fraction of that time, we see the birth of machines, then electricity, and so on up till the wonders of modern technology.

It really shows the accelerating growth of technology that you can't see just by looking at what you remember (if you just look at things like what's changed since the moon landing, it's easy to make the mistake of thinking that technology hasn't been accelerating).

For reference, a quick Google search that the earliest *possible* use of a pulley was about 3500 years ago and the compound pulley was invented about 2300 years ago. The wheel seems to be about 4500 years old. It's the cascading effect of scientific progress. It adds upon itself in unpredictable ways.  I'd argue that writing was the biggest game changer.  Being able to bridge the generational gap and get the brilliance of past geniuses in their own words, as opposed to their "interpreted" words created that snowball.

Language was the first leap, writing was the second.  I just feel those took hominins from learning by mimicry, to learning from instruction, and finally learning by study.

I don't know if I'm exactly making a coherent thought here, but I'm trying to translate this thought. &gt; Language was the first leap, writing was the second.

And wholesale adoption of the scientific method the third.  [Ray Kurzweil's Law of Accelerating Returns.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Accelerating_change#Kurzweil.27s_The_Law_of_Accelerating_Returns)

 The idea of a Technological Singularity has been gaining a lot of traction recently. For example, Elon Musk and Stephen Hawking warning about AI, not to mention Baidu, Facebook, and Google's incredible progress in machine learning, as well as in mainstream media with related movies that have come out such as Transcendence, Ex Machina, and Avengers: Age of Ultron. It's mind boggling to think where it's all headed. I recommend checking out /r/singularity, because there's no doubt things are only going get more interesting. I really hope (maybe) that humankind unlocks immortality before I die, or at least extends the average lifespan to 200, just because I want to see more of what's to come in the future. Every day it's as though human life intensifies, for each of us and all-together. Despite how quickly things are moving and spinning about at unimaginable speeds, time is thick enough to allow us to adapt. Of course, not everyone wants to adapt because they're happy with now. What's *really* hard to wrap my mind around is that almost every generation pretty much since the industrial revolution has felt exactly as you do. My father was born in 1922. When he was seven years old, his family took a trip from NY to Lithuania. Obviously they went by ship, since *it was only two years after Charles Lindbergh flew across the Atlantic.*

Now I'm sitting here looking at photos of Pluto on this global computer network.  No no no, think about it like this.  
  
A mere 47 years after your father's family took their trip, we were on the *moon*  
  
On the moon 49 years after Lindbergh *flew* across the atlantic.   
  
66 years from the first powered flight to landing on the moon.  
  
That's a mind blowing level of progress. It's basically a techno-religion, there is no rational reason to believe that anything like that is likely to happen. It's amazing what you can achieve when you have a school system or don't have to worry about whether your next meal will try to eat you instead! Imagine where the world could get to if all 7 billion of us had the time to sit back and think and use less time just getting by.

The world may have a hundred einsteins just slogging through life and never amounting to anything great.  Dissapointing that they were stuck on stone tools so long, come on guys it take me like 3 turns in civ Marathon speed master race. This is why science is so amazing. There's nothing more exciting than finding out new truths, and realizing that there is always more to knowledge and understanding.  Based on the pictures, those tools look closer to the kinds of stone hammers and anvils that capuchin monkeys and chimpanzees use than the kinds of stone tools shaped through flinknapping by later hominins. 

From the paper:
&gt;The arm and hand motions entailed in the two main modes of knapping suggested for the LOM3 assemblage, passive hammer and bipolar, are arguably more similar to those involved in the hammer-on-anvil technique chimpanzees and other primates use when engaged in nut cracking42, 43, 44 than to the direct freehand percussion evident in Oldowan assemblages.

...
&gt;The LOM3 assemblage could represent a technological stage between a hypothetical pounding-oriented stone tool use by an earlier hominin and the flaking-oriented knapping behaviour of later, Oldowan toolmakers.

I'm not sure these should be properly considered "stone tools" in the usual way they're referred to (as in material that was deliberately shaped to fill a pre-determined function, rather than rocks that are flaked as a result of use as a tool (in pounding and breaking nuts, for example)). But I could be wrong. The tools were fashioned in a manner capuchins use rocks to crack nuts. But no capuchin has been seen to bash one rock with another to turn that other rock into something more useful.

Capuchin =&gt; use rock as hammer to smash nut

Hominid in paper =&gt; Used rock to bash other rock then used bashed rock as tool. 

It wasn't full blown flint knapping. Sounds like these homonids bashed one rock with another, and then check if any chunks or flakes useful. 

Humans are about meta-tool use. Sure, you see tool use in all sorts of other animals. But humans AFAIK are the only animals who use a tool to make a tool that is then used. Modern humans take this meta tool level to incredible levels.

So capuchin, tool recursion= 0, they directly use the tool to crack a nut or get termites.

Modern humans, tool recursion = ~infinite. we make tools to mine ore to make tools to build airplanes, etc

These hominds, tool recursion = 1, they used a rock to bash a rock and then used the rock fragments as tools. This is something, AFAIK, not seen in any other animal except humans/hominids.

These hominids would be the first example of tool recursion in human ancestors. I don't know if you would count it the same, but crows have been shown to bend wires to make hooks. It is modifying the original design to better suit the task, I don't know if that qualifies as making tools though. That in itself is fascinating, but what /u/crusoe was referring to is the fact that this appears to be evidence of *using tools to make other tools*, which as far as I know we are the only species that does so.

An equivalent example would be if the crow stripped a branch to make an anvil to bend the wire around.  The branch would be "meta" in that it didn't have any direct use as a tool, but only as a tool to make another tool.  That shows an important leap in abstract thought, that's pretty much the basis of sapience. Like this?:

https://youtu.be/s472GjbLKQ4?t=15m

Watch until about the 20 min mark. Specifically from 17-20 minutes. Wow that's really amazing, and I would put it right at the borderline of sapience.  I still would think that "gathering a tool to gather a second tool" has a significant gulf between it and "making a tool to make a second tool" but that's the closest I've heard of in a non-Hominini.  Disclaimer - I'm not a scientist, just an interested amateur, so I'm sure someone with a better handle on this can give a better response. Chimps do shape termite fishing sticks for use similarly.  They don't use a tool to make a tool, but they do make a tool. Not in the wild though, and I don't know if multiple crows have been able to do it, but yeah, that is really impressive. Well actually they are found doing this in the wild. That's how we know anything about it actually. They're called New Caledonian Crows, you should look them up if you get a chance. &gt;Used rock to bash other rock then used bashed rock as tool. 

"Technological advance is an inherently iterative process. One does not simply take sand from the beach and produce a Dataprobe. We use crude tools to fashion better tools, and then our better tools to fashion more precise tools, and so on. Each minor refinement is a step in the process, and all of the steps must be taken." &gt; It wasn't full blown flint knapping. Sounds like these homonids bashed one rock with another, and then check if any chunks or flakes useful.

Sometimes thats how modern knapping works to, but if your referring to an overall intentional design of a tool, then this find, to my admittedly very amateur self, is mind blowing [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] SEVEN. HUNDRED. THOUSAND. YEARS.

I thought this week was dragging in until I read this. 

Sometimes I forget how tiny we are in the cosmic scale but reading this reminded me. Incredible discovery..  the exponential growth of human knowledge blows my mind. It took SEVEN. HUNDRED. **THOUSAND**. YEARS. to go from shaped stones to slightly better shaped stones. But only two *thousand* to go from iron tools to the moon. Crazy. 3 million years.    Given the progress we've made in the past 2000 years it makes you wonder what kind of cognitive block existed that had us wandering around doing the hunter/gatherer gig for literally millions of years.

Pre-historic slackers. They didn't have shoe laces to pull themselves up with. Mystery solved. Boot straps neither How many people do you know that have *designed* new tools, instead of just using or making something that someone else has designed?  How many people do you know that have done that without the benefit of a University education?  

But yes, these weren't humans.  Modern humans don't show up until 200,000 years ago (and there are some arguments that cognitively modern humans don't show up until 50,000 years ago). So what's changed in that time? As I understand it, the cooking of food and modern agriculture had something to do with the change in our brain function and societal structure. With agriculture we could settle in one place. This meant we had more time to contemplate and learn. Then something or other about protein in cooked food. It takes less energy to digest cooked food than raw food so that energy can be used for brain functions. Or at least I remember someone telling me that.  The written word and its effect on education? Just a guess, but it seems like it'd make a pretty big difference. &gt;kind of cognitive block existed

Simple - 2.8 million years of evolution. The creatures that were making these tools weren't modern humans like you and me, but our distant ancestors. Higher-functioning monkeys, most likely. 

Modern humans emerge just 200,000 years ago in Africa, and since then (in the incredibly short space of time, relatively speaking) have spread out to occupy every environment on the globe and invent flat screens that show you other, more attractive, members of the species copulating whenever you desire. Among other things.  Reported by the BBC.   http://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-32804177 Much better article that isn;t all jargony and actually tells you what tools they made.  Thanks!

&gt; [The tools includes sharp-edged flakes, hammers and anvils ](http://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/660/media/images/83115000/jpg/_83115944_untitledcutattempt.jpg) *Thank you.* All the tools and the excavation site can be found here in 3d :)
http://africanfossils.org/excavations Does anyone else find it depressing that it took that long to go from the first tools to us?  I mean, I know some of the reasons why, like you need a certain population size before people can start to specialize in things beyond basic survival, but that still seems like a really really long time. Why would you find it depressing? The dinosaurs lived for hundreds of millions of years, and they never developed tools as basic as an axe.

Keep in mind, these tool-users lived millions of years ago. It's not as if they were modern humans dropped into the past. They EVOLVED into humans, but most people would probably consider these early hominids closer to chimps than humans Jonathan Haidt made an interesting point that stone tool technology remained essentially *static* for millions of years, perhaps because the hominids that made them were on auto-pilot, i.e.: just like beaver-damns and bowerbird nests, hominid tool-making was purely instinctive and automatic. In other words, they weren't really consciously designing tools the way we started doing relatively recently, and therefore their tool-making should be considered more of an animal-behavior. Look at the history of the plow in Europe.

Millions of people stared at their terrible design for billions of hours without improvement.  Took a guy going to China and seeing a plow that actually turned over the soil. You know, there's literally billions of humans right now trying to do minimal amounts of innovation at work out of fear for being asked to do even more work. Those people are not on autopilot, at least not all of them. It's perhaps possible those Europeans were capable of or even did conceive of improved designs, but wanted no part of interrupting their routine that allowed for some hobby they enjoy.  Like those women in Africa who refused machinery to help them process some food (corn or something, I forgot). They liked gathering around and talking while working slowly... Which plow are you talking about? The improved moldboard introduced in Europe by the Dutch in the 1600s, based on designs they'd observed in China.  I believe it was the first major design improvement since the basic heavy moldboard that was introduced in ~ 700 AD  Can u please post links or pics of what you're talking about? Before and after pics of the plow Interesting. They really skip right over the Chinese connection in the history of the plow materials I've read. You have to consider how primitive humans must have been back then, these tools were literally made by monkeys. This is quite true.

Also wanted to add that we have witnessed multiple primitive animals using tools - ants, gorillas, birds. I don't think tool use alone is a big enough catalyst for drastic paradigm shifts in a population. someone else in this thread said that a tool is defined by shaping it to better ease it's purpose, such as creating a groove to fasten it to a stick, or shaping a rock to have a head more suitable for the task. 

So my question is, are these animals really using tools? If I pick up a rock to kill a bug, am I using a tool? Some animals use tools according to this definition. Chimps modify sticks for termite fishing by stripping off branches and leaves; crows (under experimental conditions at least) have been able to bend wires into hook shapes to use as tools. Crows have also demonstrated "meta-tool use", using a short stick to reach a longer stick which it would use to reach food it couldn't reach with the short stick,  By what you paraphrased, no. But yes, you're using something other than your body parts so it's a tool.

A better description is what another user posted which is recursion in tools. We make tools of which we make other tools with said tools. Current primates that use tools use tools with 0 recursion. So for example, this straw I found goes really well in that termite mound, but isn't so good for anything else.

This article is saying they essentially used a rock to shape another rock and then use that rock to pound a nut open. That's why it's classified as a made tool. No, they weren't. Apes, not monkeys. Ah yes....These tools were made by apes. Eh, the distinction between apes and monkeys is more traditional and linguistic than taxonomical. Apes are far more closely related to the old world monkeys of Africa and Asia  than the old world monkeys are to the new world monkeys of South America, the disparity comes from the days before the understanding of evolution, when anything tailless was called an ape (like the [barbary apes, ](http://www.johalpinjones.com/images/barbary_ape_morocco_500.jpg)a tailless type of macaque monkey). We can draw lines in the sand all we like but whatever we call ourselves and our closest kin we're just another lot of monkeys! There is a multitude of reasons why it took so long to even begin socializing, but one of the prevailing theories is

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guns,_Germs,_and_Steel#The_theory_outlined[2]
&gt; The first step towards civilization is the move from nomadic hunter-gatherer to rooted agrarian society. Several conditions are necessary for this transition to occur: 1) access to high protein vegetation that endures storage; 2) a climate dry enough to allow storage; 3) access to animals docile enough for domestication and versatile enough to survive captivity. Control of crops and livestock leads to food surpluses. Surplus frees people up to specialize in activities other than sustenance and supports population growth. The combination of specialization and population growth leads to the accumulation of social and technologic innovations which build on each other. Large societies develop ruling classes and supporting bureaucracies, which in turn lead to the organization of nation-states and empires.[2]
Although agriculture arose in several parts of the world, Eurasia gained an early advantage due to the greater availability of suitable plant and animal species for domestication. In particular, Eurasia has barley, two varieties of wheat and three protein-rich pulses for food; flax for textiles; goats, sheep and cattle. Eurasian grains were richer in protein, easier to sow and easier to store than American maize or tropical bananas.

 Is it possible that we have gone from stone tool users to modern high tech civilizations more than once? There would likely be some evidence of it. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] If this were the case then we would *probably* find some form of evidence somewhere around the world - or in space. I guess it depends how advanced you're talking, because if humanity had previously been as advanced as we are now then there would undoubtably be shreds of evidence in space and all across the world. If, by "advanced", you just mean something like late-BC era people, then I guess it's possible?  No, if there were "high tech" civilizations they would have left some evidence behind. There's no possibility of that being the case considering we've been studying the planet for hundreds of years and haven't found the slightest bit of evidence to even suggest that. For example, metals. We found metals almost sitting on the surface, out in the open. Prehistoric metalworkers did not need to dig deep to get their materials, assuming they needed to dig at all. Why would a technologically advanced civilization not have harvested those metals? I don't think we've gone high tech more than once but I really doubt that we've only had civilization for how ever long is we have hard evidence for. I'm not familiar with the exact age but I've heard numbers thrown around from 4000-12000 years. I'm sure someone here smarter than myself knows. [But humans have been around for a really really really long time.](http://www.history.com/news/discovery-of-oldest-human-fossil-fills-evolutionary-gap) Not even looking at the whole range that new evidence gives for how long we've been around, lets just say that we've been around for 500,000 years. The idea that it took us 490,000 years to develop a civilization. I think there have probably been countless ancient civilizations over the entirety of human existence. But look at how much of ancient Egypt is left. It's only four thousandish years old and there is surprising little of it left. I doubt there would be any evidence left to find of a civilization that lived a few hundred thousand years ago. To put things into perspective, you have to remember, Homo habilis was around 2.8 million years ago. The species lived on another million years or so, and then after that Homo erectus was walking around for an entire other million years. A million years seems like a very long time, and it is, especially so when you realize that we have been around ONLY 200,000 years in our modern anatomical form.  Homo sapiens, from the origination of our species to the present day have only been around about 200,000 years compared to those millions that our ancestor species roamed the Earth.

And these guys werent just simple apes. They were walking around, making tools and already controlling fire. It was Homo erectus that first spread out of Africa and colonized most of Asia, already controlling fire and hunting large animals, millions of years before our own species evolved from his buddies back in Africa. 

I know this doesnt add much to your point, but it's interesting to put in perspective. Also, I do agree with you, it is likely there could have been lost civilizations that we haven't found or possibly will never know about.

 So lets say that we go with 200,000 years. That's still 190,000 years of nothing. Humans are smart, even the most primitive humans are pretty damn smart. There's evidence our ancestors have been using fire for about a million years. I don't think it took us nearly a million years of burning random crap to figure out that some rocks when heated bleed metal. But without agriculture you don't have the manpower or permanent settlements necessary to mine and smelt metals. It depends on whether or not they have time to be curious (how much of the day is devoted to finding shelter, food, repairing tools, etc), how rigid their society is (probably relatively so, survival does that to you), and simply access to materials that can be used in novel ways (metal ores don't tend to just sit around in useful amounts).

You can trace the explosions of technology across mankind's distance past.  Once an idea was invented it spread pretty quick.  And interestingly a lot of those early innovations seemed to happen in pretty close temporal proximity around the globe.  

Too far apart for word-of-mouth to travel so likely they were probably all-but geologically simultaneous innovations being made independently from one another.  The specific shape of the tools differed greatly from region to region, but the tool's purpose, and effectiveness, was pretty similar despite the different shapes.  The fact that there wasn't a lot of radical change to a local tool's shape and design after it was invented speaks to how static early cultures must have been.  The same basic shape being turned out for hundreds of generations says that tradition rather than innovation was the watchword of early humanity.

For any one area to get substantially further ahead would have been unlikely - the pace of technological advancement around the world was in pretty close lockstep for most of our time on this planet.  It wasn't until maybe 10,000 years ago that specific tribes really made some key quantum leaps that propelled them into eventually founding the early civilizations.  Also remember, during this timeframe of Homo sapiens coming around, we in a relatively short timeframe wiped out every other hominid species on the Earth, crossed open seas, killed off numerous species of large animal (check out the history of Australia), and trekked deep into frozen wastelands and survived there.  

There was definitely SOMETHING going on. Whether or not civilizations were being erected, I don't know. But some crazy stuff was going down, that's for sure. Check out Haplogroup A00 if you haven't heard of it:  

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haplogroup_A_%28Y-DNA%29#A00_.28Perry.27s_Y-chromosome.29

blew my mind I'm genuinely curious why this is labelled "paleontology" rather than "archaeology?" They weren't modern humans. Not by a long shot. This far back in our ancestry we're studying very smart animals. Its been corrected to "Anthropology" as it should be.  Could someone explain how you date a tool? You wear a miniskirt at a monster truck event This should more appropriately be tagged with Anthropology, not Paleontology. Isn't Paleoanthropology a subject?  Yes, it is a subdiscipline of Anthropology. It is the subdiscipline that is primarily concerned with the origins and evolution of humankind. Maybe not the right place, but how are archeologist even capable of finding this shaped tools in the first place? essentially they're buried rocks. My physical anthropology professor at University of Colorado last semester kept talking about how there was some big development that was going to change traditional dating of hominds but he couldn't tell us what because it hadn't been published yet. I wonder if this is what he was talking about Looks like rocks to me, could be that I know nothing about Archeology though.. -_-

ELI5 - What defines these to be Tools as opposed to just plain rocks used for presumably smashing things? [deleted] sadly the only headline i see coming from that would be to "*highlight the controversy*" of evolution There's no pictures on the mobile site.  [deleted] &gt; Scientists love to be proved wrong!

I know people are giving you flak for this phrasing, but I know what you mean. While individual scientists may not like being proven wrong, there is most certainly an excitement associated with a revision to an old idea based on new evidence. The most exciting things I ever read are good arguments against things I thought to be true. [deleted] Think of all of the stories that have been forgotten in 3.3 million years. How much history just will never be known. At least now people have twitter and Facebook accounts to be remembered by. Two turn tabilis and a microphonolis It's been a while since I took my anthropology undergrad classes, but this feels like a fairly significant discovery! The way we viewed what we called pre-tool cultures could now be completely obsolete and make a lot of what I learned in those classes...meaningless. Once again everything I learned in college is wrong. Why oh why did I major in anthropology.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Also a normal weight person who grew up in a fat family. I had the same experience, even going so far as to be called "Annie Anorexia" at the dinner table. Now that I am a little overweight in my twenties, they think I look fabulous. Every time I say I need to lose ten to fifteen pounds they look at me like I'm nuts. It's amazing how the mind works.  I'm the opposite. I'm 5'4 and weigh 110 lbs and come from a short and skinny family. My mom was trying to get me to wear a really wide shirt which would look weird on me because i'm so skinny. I explained this to my mom and she was astonished, saying that I was neither short nor skinny. 

Edit: I'm a guy, there seemed to be some confusion about that. Yep. I'm 5'8" and 125 lbs. My mom is significantly skinnier. In high school i was closer to 115 and the same height, and she would often tell me to get a large and say things like "you're not a skinny girl...." when shopping. It seems people keep their own weights in mind as a benchmark of "normal" in these cases.  Yeah, my mom used to go on and on about how she just couldn't believe how much I weighed, at 5'5" 130. [deleted] I feel you. I was 5'9 in my junior year of high school,  and at my most ill (anorexic), I weighed just under 90 pounds.  (I recently discovered this when my mom broke out my medical chart.  I wasn't allowed to have a scale towards the end of my illness. )

People have no idea what other people really weigh.  They think tall women should weigh 110.  Fuck no,  we shouldn't. And at my worst, at just under 90 pounds,  I looked like a [skeksis](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skeksis)  from the Dark Crystal.  I smelled worse.  my "immediate environment" definitely had more of a negative effect on me than the media did. the only negative comments i can recall about my body came from my own mother. she'd constantly tell me i had a big ass, would say comments about my belly, etc. etc. i swear she's the reason i have body issues. i should *not* feel fat at 4'11" 100 pounds. thanks mom. [deleted] Very well-put. I went through a very similar experience with anorexia, and I have gained enough insight from seeing a therapist and from years of reflecting on it, to know that it was absolutely not images in the media that caused my problem. It was comments that were made to me about how much I ate and how I looked that were much more to blame. Of course there are so many other psychological factors involved, but teenagers are very sensitive to these kinds of things, and all of the offhand remarks still stick in my mind.

Its interesting, I was down to 90 lbs at 5'6', and my mom had no idea that there was a problem. She was just completely unable to actually see what her daughter looked like. I think in her case it was because she loved me so much and could not see me as anything but her beautiful, healthy daughter. Its weird the biases that can color how people view those around them.

Regardless, sorry to hear that happened to you. Having someone say that to me would've destroyed me. I agree. I was a chubby kid and when I was in third grade my grandma called me fat at my birthday party. I never got over it. It spiraled out of control and developed into an eating disorder. Now, grandma has dimensia and she thinks we are all exactly like we were as kids. She still tells everyone in the family how I'm the fat one. It's really hard to deal with.  Wait, what? You're short and skinny, and come from a short and skinny family, but your mother can't assess your body-type? Well yea it kinda makes sense, if they are all short and skinny they will assume that is normal, so the mom thinks her daughter looks "normal" not short and skinny But they'll all be used to buying small clothes. Yeah, for *themselves*.  But if you're under 5'5 and your son is taller than you, it doesn't really matter if he's taller by an inch, you know? I agree with you. I have no idea what is going on in that story. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] My wife and I are obese, morbidly so, not going to lie about it.

And as such we are hyper aware of our own 3 kids weights. We ensure they are constantly playing, and we use ourselves as living breathing examples of what not to do.

We are also both losing weight rapidly because we are showing our kids the healthy way to eat and wouldn't you know it, not binging on chips and soda makes you lose weight.

EDIT: Thanks for the gold stranger. And I updated my cell phone spelling mistakes. Good for you!

I've also seen some parents put it another way: they want to lose weight not just to be a good example for their kids, but to be there at all for their kids a few decades down the line. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] seriously, way to be an awesome parent! too many parents are in denial but your kids will remember how hard you had to work to get things under control and hopefully that makes an impression on them. good luck and keep it up! This makes me really happy to hear. You guys are a perfect example of good parenting. You saw a problem you didn't want your kids to have and worked on it. Really, good for you two. Thank you, but I wouldn't go so far to say we are perfect, but we are sure as hell trying our best.

I just want my kids to have it better than me, and more importantly to be respected. &gt; We are also both losing weight rapidly

Good for you.  Otherwise, it's exactly like a 2 pack a day smoker telling their kids that smoking is bad.  Not gonna lie, that can be very ~~valuable~~ motivating to some people. I am sorry all of you had to deal with that. My kids were my wake up call. They eat very healthy and balanced diets. We do not buy junk except for bdays. Their father and I finally got it together about how much diet effects being over weight for our selves and have both lost weight. :) we are continuing to make better choices and its showing. Finally. The brain and denial can be tricky. :/ &gt; We do not buy junk except for bdays. 

I think this is really important. Most people, myself included, don't have much self-control when it comes to snack foods. It's easy to be strong in the grocery store and not buy a bag of chips. It's a lot harder to resist opening and emptying that bag of chips once it's in the cupboard.

Good on you for losing weight! I have the same problem. I am a small individual of a light-normal weight. I always have been since I was about 12 years old. I always have to hear how I need to gain weight from my entire overweight family. 

Not to mention the crap I get from my husband's overweight family about my children's and my weight. They like to claim my child is too skinny and we need to eat more. I am completely normal for my height as is my child. 

My husband's niece had a baby and they were feeding her mashed up food at 2-3 months. Then, they were forcing her to take medicine to make her gain weight. That poor child weighs as much as my toddler does. I still have yet to figure out what is wrong with them. 

Obesity is not healthy by any means. [deleted] To be fair, juice is really not much better than pop. I mean, I'd rather my kid drank OJ than Mountain Dew but the amount of sugar is not that different. They should mostly drink water and maybe milk.  When it comes to soda, the sugar isn't the biggest issue regarding dental problems. Both soda and most juices are acidic, which means that it wears down the enamel which protects the nerves of the teeth from the elements (think hot and cold drinks/food).

Also, protip: Never brush your teeth if you've just had something containing any kind of acidic drink. You're ending up "polishing away" enamel that has been softened by the acid, which speeds up the rate of decay. Drink some water first, and wait 30-40 minutes.

Source: My dad is a dentist and he never shuts up about this stuff. [deleted] I'm not a psychologist, but it seems pretty easy to diagnose what your family was doing - they were rationalizing.  They didn't want to acknowledge that they were fat, so by deciding that your healthy weight was in fact underweight, it now made their unacceptable obesity perfectly acceptable.

And this is part of why obesity is such a problem.  No one takes responsibility for anything anymore.  They blame it on someone or something else.  Or if they can't figure who or what to blame, they'll at least be darn certain it's not their own fault!

If you admit you're obese and slowly killing yourself, then you'll be forced to make lifestyle changes.  Lifestyle changes are hard.  So they'd rather live in denial.

And we enable this behavior.  Think someone is underweight or anorexic?  It's perfectly socially acceptable to point this out or say it to the person's face.  Think they're fat or a glutton?  God forbid you tell the person, lest you be an uncouth social pariah.

When I was 70 lbs overweight, no one said a word to me.  Once I lost it and got to a healthy weight, suddenly everyone was quite comfortable to warn me that I was losing too much weight and needed to stop.  It was amusing, except for the fact that it was annoying.  And no, I wasn't anywhere close to underweight - even at my lowest (5' 8", 148 lbs - male), I would have needed to lose another 10-15 lbs before I'd even dip into "underweight" territory.  

Our society just doesn't know what healthy people look like anymore.  So rather than re-educate ourselves and live in reality, we just deny and live in delusion -- and make excuses.  And it annoys the crap out of me. [deleted] My wife and I are not overweight (could stand to lose 10 pounds), and our 8 year old is right at the 50% line and my wife says at times that she thinks he's too skinny, but he's perfectly normal, it's just that the majority of the kids around are way above his threshold so he appears to be well below the normal line. Here is the peer-reviewed journal entry: http://online.liebertpub.com/doi/abs/10.1089/chi.2014.0104 A couple of important excerpts (in my opinion):

&gt;Although BMI cut-offs in childhood can be considered arbitrary in some ways (because they are based on population norms rather than specified health risks associated with them), childhood overweight and obesity have been shown to predict adult weight status and the health problems associated with excess weight in adulthood.

...

&gt;This discrepancy in perceived weight status is important for policy makers and clinicians to consider in their approaches to obesity prevention; weight management interventions targeted at the parents of overweight children are unlikely to register with the intended audience if few parents consider their child to be overweight. Measures that decrease the gap between parental perceptions of child weight status and BMI cut-offs used by medical professionals may help parents better understand the health risks associated with being overweight and increase uptake of healthier lifestyles. My father, an ER doc, spends some of his time in mobile clinics.  He will often have parents worried to death about their children who "just won't eat."  The kid is perfectly healthy, but according to the parent s/he is wasting away.  He explains what a healthy weight range is and they become incredulous.  It's hard for doctors to help when a subset of the culture has an ingrained assumption about what is healthy. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt; "If every other child is obese or overweight, you would think your child" is normal as well, he added.

What a weird way to quote someone There's a couple of poorly edited items in this. The title suggests that 95% of all parents have an overweight child.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] My parents think my brother and I are "screwing something up" because we are working out and getting thinner in the gut area.

My mom keeps trying to throw food at us when we visit home from college.

Alot of it has to do with Indian culture (fat= rich man, comfortable;;;skinny/wry=slum dweller), but a lot also has to do with the premise outlined by this study. I've been skinny all my life until the past year or so. I work from home now and the harsh winter caused me to put on some winter weight. I'm working to get it back off, but it's obviously made me a little bit heavier. My grandma comments every time she sees me now that I've put on weight, but it looks "good on me". It's just weird because I notice the gut that started to form, and I don't think it looks good... [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Could it also be possible too that in addition to parents being unable to gauge a healthy weight, that they don't want to feel the negative emotion of admitting to them selves and the researchers "Yes, I think my child is over weight"??  Maybe some of them can indeed tell a change needs to be made, but can't bring them selves to admit it or say something "mean" about their own child? [deleted] I agree with you that it's a flaw in the design of the study, I think. The data would be more deserving of the title if they asked people to identify underweight, normal, and overweight children from pictures. People are totally biased when it comes to their own kids. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] My own experience has shown that this issue is especially prevalent in families from Southeast Asia (India, Pakistan...) and also with African Americans.

The issue is much more complicated than than just that they don't know what healthy weight looks like or that their doctors are not helping them. 

It's also a deep cultural issue as well and one of perception and psychology. I have close friends who grew up in India and Pakistan and they were all obese as children: They have explained to be that thinness is associated with poverty and lower classes, whereas obesity is seen as related to abundance and being upper class.  A very similar study from the UK that was published last month found exactly that: 
&gt; Parents were more likely to underestimate a childs weight if the child was black or South Asian, male, more deprived, or the child was older.

Overall, they found that only 4 parents (out of 2,976) thought their children were obese. Medical assessment suggested 396 were. There were even some parents of obese children who classed their kids as underweight. 


Sources:  
[BBC article](http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/health-32069699),  
[Original paper](http://bjgp.org/content/65/633/e234) - might be paywalled I'm sorry and I will regret saying this, but I have to nitpick on something irrelevant to your argument; India and Pakistan are technically South Asia not South East. South East Asia is East of India, North of Australia and south of China. 

As for what your actual argument is - agreed. It isnt just african americans, but africans too. I work in Uganda/Kenya and when I tell them I don't want to put on any more weight they think I'm crazy because I can afford (financially) to be bigger. Then again they think a lot that I do is crazy so maybe a don't rely on my anecdotal evidence :) In my practice (Family Medicine) we see lots of obese kids (and adults). I've had a teen girl with a BMI pushing 40 who looked at me like I was crazy when I brought up my concerns about her weight, the first time I had seen her. She was confused and said "But I'm the skinniest of all my friends". Or the moms (who are fat too) who say that the family is perfectly healthy because they eat right, and no one has proven being fat by itself is dangerous.   
  
It's frustrating, and frightening. Tobacco and obesity in America are neck and neck for #1 preventable contributors to death. When in the hospital, the majority of the patients in the ICU (not due to some trauma or accident) are either overweight or former/current smokers.   
  
In the pediatric side of the hospital, of the 16 patients on one floor I saw recently, every single mother was obese, even if the patients weren't. Many rooms reeked of smoke (the asthma kids). Mention something about it, and they get offended many times.   
  
But every once in a while, one will seem interested. You keep planting seeds, and they make a change and their life changes. It makes it worth all the frustration and hair pulling that the other 95% bring on. I have first hand experience of this. For the past seven or eight years I have weighed 150 lbs or so. And i am and especially used to be a short guy so my weight was a problem. I was borderline overweight (just outside of the bmi) but definitely unhealthy. Recently I've dropped down to 130 and then back up to 150 in muscle mass. My mom and grandmother sat me down and had an intervention with me about my "body dismorphia that is slowly killing me" I literally look like any other twenty year old out there.
___
Edit: They've cried at me on many occasions. My completely average body brings them to tears. Is this some sort of cognitive dissonance? "My child can't be overweight or that would mean I'm a bad parent, therefore my child is perfect"? Parents of overweight children tend to be fat themselves. If you're fat, fat becomes the baseline. It's subconscious, so not necessarily about fault and more about just perception. I hadn't thought much about it until I read this line from the article,
&gt;... and for a parent, I think it's really hard to understand these growth charts

but thinking back I always was shown graphs that plotted my height and weight against each other with dates by the recorded points and with trend lines that I was expected to stay between.  There was quite a lot of info packed into that one graph.  I imagine it is quite a useful tool you're a doctor accustomed to using it -- you could visualize recent trends and growth spurts and all sorts of things.

It's easy to imagine parents getting lost in that data and overlooking a much simpler one-dimensional graph that hides in it: where their kid lies right now on a scale ranging from emaciated through healthy to worryingly obese. Pediatrician here - this is such a huge struggle every day.  So many families have no clue there child is obese and / or have no interest in discussing a healthy lifestyle.  The only thing that seems to help is showing them the growth chart and the weight line shooting up out of control.  The sad thing is even with motivated patients, our pediatric nutritionist, the community activity programs, and regular weight checks the success rate is low [deleted] [deleted] I work in a pediatric hospital and the doctors usually try to be blunt with the parents of overweight children as in "If you do not make big changes in your child's life they will get type 2 diabetes".  It may not always be "sensitive" but it is necessary for them to hear from their doctor who is a respected authority figure.  But then the doctor's also stress that it needs to be a change for the whole family and not just the child and that the parents need to remember that the child only eats what the parent provides so they ultimately have control of the situation if they choose to exert it. Yep.  I can't tell you how many times we have done knee surgery on obese people only to find that nothing is wrong with the anatomy, the patient just has too much weight on the joint.  It's a terrible waste of time and money.  [deleted] Called the Goldilocks Effect, appropriately. People need to understand that the terms over weight and obese are both medical terms and facts based on weight and BMI. They are not subjective terms. Childhood obesity needs to be taken seriously. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I have an interesting story from my college days.

I lived in a 4-man shared apartment, and had one roommate in particular that I'll call Chris. Chris was overweight but not obese being about 5' 9" tall and weighing around 190 lbs. Chris has a friend I'll call Devin that comes over frequently. Devin was a very fit 6' 2", weighing about 200 lbs. Chris's father liked to come to the apartment and take his son to eat out. His father was quite obese, I would guess at 250 lbs at about 5' 10". Whenever his father came over, he would joke to his son, Chris, about how thin he is looking. One day, Chris's father sees Devin and asks him if he has been working out. Devin replies that he has. Chris's father tells him that he is looking really skinny and that he needs to gain some weight by eating a lot more in order to look like a real man. Devin laughs, realizes he isn't joking, and then things became silent. I was shocked as Devin had an extremely healthy appearance (he was quite muscular and wasn't skinny nor fat). At that moment, I realized you shouldn't take health advice from anyone that isn't a trained professional (including your own parents). [deleted] [deleted] Wow - I feel like I'm somewhat lean, but I checked my BMI just now. I need to lose 15 pounds just to stop being overweight, and even then, I'm on the upper end of the healthy weight spectrum.

That's surprising, but I believe it. I'm going to intensify my diet and lose these pounds. [deleted] [deleted]   My guess is that the family knows the kid is overweight, they just aren't going to say so on a survey.  Because having a fat kid equals being a failure as a parent and your kid is something to be ashamed of, right =?  So why are we surprised by these results? 
 [deleted] [deleted] Being one of two truly fit people in your family sucks. They just don't get that I really don't want to eat pasta 11 times a week or that I really don't want to eat cake for every occasion or that hell, maybe one serving of food was enough and when I say I'm done please don't bring me more on your plate. 

They love through food, if they're not feeding you they don't feel like they love you. The psychological issues are insane. My Brother in law and I Crossfit and workout all the time and try to eat right, we are constantly exchanging glances at every family occasion.  [deleted] [deleted] as a 6'4 male who weigh's 185 lb I am told I am ridiculously skinny on a daily basis. I have a BMI of 22 right in the middle of normal weight. I'm fit, but not over muscular more of a triathlete build vs a body builder. 

now here is where BMI is skewed, back when I was lifting every day in the USMC, I weighed 210 and much stronger that put me at a BMI of 25, and over weight which I definitely wasn't. BMI is a good start for 95% of people though.

Underweight = &lt;18.5
Normal weight = 18.524.9 
Overweight = 2529.9 
Obesity = BMI of 30 or greater

 source : http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/educational/lose_wt/BMI/bmicalc.htm [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I wonder how much of this is self-interest by parents who don't want to constantly feel guilty about being overweight themselves because of seeing their children at a healthy weight. The one upside of being raised by a father who was a body-builder and a mother who was a ballerina/personal trainer is that I was always told point blank when I was the least bit out of shape.  some of my relatives seem to be convinced that they're always sitting in chairs or seats in cars and saying they are built too small [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Let me start off by saying this.. If you have body image issues, please don't project them onto your children! It stays with us for a long time, no matter how long we try to shake it.

My mother was always extremely skinny. It wasn't even on purpose, she tried gaining weight her whole life but never could. When she got married at 30, she was 5'5 and weighed 80 lbs. she became pregnant with me only a few months later, and at full term she weighed 105 lbs. she was fine with that because she felt like it was a good weight for her and she never got lower than that again. At 36 she had my brother, but this time she went from 105 lbs to 140 lbs. This is when she changed. She became obsessed with losing weight, exercising a lot, eating only the minimum. I was at such a critical age at that point, but she changed my "diet" as well. I could only eat egg whites plain for breakfast, a salad with no dressing for lunch, and boiled chicken for dinner. While that was healthy, it wasn't enough. I was hungry all the time, and started stealing food in the middle of the night. I gained weight pretty quickly and my mom panicked, and started restricting my food even more. I couldn't function with out eating, so I started stealing junk food from kids at school, my teachers snack stash, at the grocery stores, etc. and would hide it all under my bed. This started when I was a young child, I'm now in my mid-twenties and continue to struggle with hiding food stashes and eating in secret. I go to bed at the same time as my fianc and I pretend to fall asleep until I'm sure they're out cold, and then sneak into my guest room and get my food stash out of the attic and binge eat. I can't even help it, it just seems like the only way I can eat with out everyone judging me for eating junk and being overweight. My mom tried to make sure I'd be skinny, and ended up causing me to be 5'6 and 200 lbs. because I ate too much in secret.


Tl;dr  my mother caused me to feel I could only eat in secret because she has considered me morbidly obese since I was 5. Ended up actually obese because I binge eat in secret. My mum did the same thing, and had a similar backstory with the being skinny until she had kids (well me). I was never a super skinny kid, but not obese, she would also make me do her crazy diets, there was one where she only ate white food, then had to listen to heavy metal in a room with a red light so the "red angry energy" would boost your metabolism... actual crazy person diets, anything but exercise. My friends would bring me food at school and I found I fell into a restrict and binge pattern, I can "do really well" and stick to super restricted diets but then inevitably binge. And though logically I know that exercising and eating a balanced diet is the key I don't feel like I'm succeeding unless I'm hungry. One of the first things I remember about my mum when I was a kid was her pointing out all of her flaws, her "fat thigh and arms", then turning to me to say "sorry you inherited those from me" I have never worn a sleeveless top in public because I can't handle the idea of people seeing my arms.


Long story, but just to drive home your point, parents putting their own insecurities on to kids can do more damage than they realise. And you're not the only one this has happened too. [deleted] [deleted] There is quite a large body of research on the benefits of exercise, and the gist of it is that getting at least 2 hours of moderate exercise a week is highly beneficial. Now, you can split that into two session 1 hour each, four sessions at 30 min each and so on, but most studies suggest that it is not terribly important how you divide this exercise, as long as each sessions last at least 10-15 minutes. 

Moreover, most of the benefits are achieved from getting **some** exercise as opposed to none. What this means is that it is much more important to get at least 30 min a week, than achieving the minimum recommended. Thus if you are unable to manage half an hour three days a week, even getting just half an hour one time a week is MUCH better than getting none at all.

All in all, these results are not terribly surprising. The benefits of moderate exercise are thoroughly documented, and this study simply adds to an already large amount of evidence. It is still important, but is not really drastically new information. 

**EDIT** ok, I am now starting to get a little concerned that so many people appears to assume my usually confident way to express myself indicates authorit, and thus: FOR THE LOVE OF GOD PEOPLE!  If you need personal healthcare advice then ask a doctor! Also, more detailed advice should be available from your local healthcare authorities. It is also generally a poor idea to base personal healthcare decisions on the contents of an anonymous internet forum. At least Wikipedia has references... What does this actually cover? Is me walking around town for an hour or two already moderate exercise or do I need to get sweating? That's a good question and is a little difficult to answer because people have different fitness levels and it depends on how fast you're walking etc. During my undergrad I had a module covering this type of thing and have loosely followed it since. These are 3 ways that have been used to measure/determine moderate physical activity.  

1. You should be able to talk but not sing whilst performing the activity (this was used in a program I helped out in for type II diabetic patients prescribed/recommended exercise and I think still used for NHS based exercise recommendations).  

2. To aim for level 12-14 on the Borg scale. The borg scale is a qualitative "rate of perceived exertion" that studies find correlate fairly well to heart rate and oxygen consumption. It's not perfect as it's qualitative but is used in the field as it is easy for people to answer and cheap. An example can be seen here http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/nutritionsource/borg-scale/  

3. A more quantitative approach for walking was done in this study (it is paywalled) http://www.ajpmonline.org/article/S0749-3797(09)00087-7/abstract They found that in general 100 steps/min would count as moderate exercise and recommended doing them in at least 10min long bouts. Again, individual differences may mean that you need less than 100 or more than 100 steps/min.  

Hopefully that helps you better gauge if walking around town or not is moderate exercise for you or not

EDIT: adjusted Borg scale from 12 to 12-14. 12-14 is the scale typically used as moderate exercise, 12 was what was used in a study I helped out in for diabetic patients as explained below and I forgot to put the range in. A good example is what happened with me. I work a mile away from my house. I was getting a ride there every day. I work as a meat cutter, along with a bunch of other tasks there. It is hard work but nothing that really raises my heart rate.

Because of having my ride show up late or no-show I decided that it would be much easier if I simply walked the mile in every morning.

When I started there I had been through a bout of unemployment where I wasn't doing much of anything. I had blown up to 265 pounds and was really feeling like hell. Working the day was killing me.

When I started walking in, especially in cold weather, I would concentrate on getting there as quick as possible. I feel great, I've lost 65 pounds, and I can concentrate on my work a lot better.

 It made a world of difference in my mood and general health. I walk as part of my commute (to and from the train) it only adds up to about 15 minutes total each way but I can't think of a better way to start my day. Walking to work through the city in the early morning can be amazing. If you're early enough you get to see the whole city start to wake up and it's such an amazing time with the soft morning lighting and the fresh air. Yeah I tell people it's one of my favorite times of day, in winter when it's almost pitch black, the city is really beautiful and I get to see the sunrise most days. I also live a mile from work, in Seattle. You know what you don't see much of in walkable cities like seattle? Fat people.  I live in Seattle, I see plenty of fat people. We do alright, at least compared to the rest of the nation (not a very high bar, I guess.)

&gt;At 22.8%, the obesity rate in the Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue area ranks as the 10th-lowest among the 52 metro areas with populations of at least one million.

Since this includes rich/fat Bellevue, and smelly/fat Tacoma, I think Seattle alone would be lower. are you sure you meant 12 on the borg scale? that's described as the exertion of going grocery shopping on the site you linked For the study I was involved in it was 12 - all the patients were diabetic, all were over 50 and the majority not exercised for a long amount of time. There are obviously concerns with those patients so the lower end of moderate activity was targeted. A previous small trial at the institute had found that for those patients longer adherence to the exercise program was achieved at that scale compared to higher RPEs.

I should have put the range which is 12-14 for moderate exercise so thanks for the input! Ouch, that's a good point about being cautious about the goal. Thanks for explaining the rationale. I can eat half this cake if I just walk up and down this grocery aisle 12 times!   We used point number one during high school cross country. Days where we were supposed to be taking things easy would be called "conversation pace." We were usually running on unmarked trails and the faster group (the "dirty dozen") would make it up as we went, so there was no chance of finding distance markers and checking our watches for pace. Conversation pace became an invaluable training tool. This is great information.  For the able-bodied.

Try getting some decent cardio with a blown knee or hip.  Or chronic back pain.

When you're young and your health and body are intact, this seems so simple.  Once you're older and have some injury or chronic condition, it is quite a challenge to get this level of exercise. *These are the people who will benefit most from some form of exercise*  And they're the toughest to convince that it's attainable and demonstrates benefit.

I think that's why there's so much of this information coming out-- trying to make it easy and remove barriers for those who will benefit most. It sucks even more when you have chronic back pain and are young :( I feel like I should be able to do so much more! Back pain can get better with exercise.  Are you overweight? When I was, I had very bad back pain. I lost 40 pounds and poof! Ty back pain went away.  Marginally. But I've had it for several years, before I was overweight :( I'm attempting to lose some weight though :) Biking and swimming are good options for those with joint pain. Also, strength training can help significantly with some cases of chronic back pain. 

Also, there are several amputees who go to my gym, and they go just as hard as anyone else. Don't make excuses, because there's always someone who has it harder and still makes it work.  My examples aren't excuses--- and I very much agree with you.  I'm saying the people who need convincing are those with limitations.  That's why the message is swinging around to convince more people of the value of exercise, in any way they can manage.

I see these people every day-- they're my patients.  I like that there's more information I can offer that will help them see value in whatever they can accomplish for exercise. I was diagnosed with scoliosis when I was 12 (i just turned 30). Enough of a curvature in my spine to cause symptoms but not enough to warrant surgery. Never had too many issues until ... I had a baby a couple of years ago and gained 75 pounds-my back KILLED me every day (obviously!). Had baby, lost 55 lbs, back still killed every single day.Had a terrible bout with it over the course of a week-could hardly walk. Ended up at the doctors 5x in a single week. My doc basically told me I could manage with pain meds or go to physical therapy. Physical therapy changed my life. The stronger my core got the better my back felt. I started running and exercising regularly - dropped another 30 lbs and have kept it off for over a year now. Just moved into new place last week-moved tons of boxes,etc. up and down stairs over the course of a few days. NO BACK PAIN. I can't express how happy this has made me. I look at my husband all the time and say "isn't it awesome that my back doesn't hurt anymore!?" Tl;dr- core strength is awesome  Moderate exercise should induce and increase in heart rate above basal level. I'd say a more brisk walk, biking, climbing stairs, etc.  Would packing and lifting boxes count? Because I do that five days a week. If your heart rate is being elevated, otherwise it's not doing much. Does our heart rate adapt to the load we give our body? Like this activity might make my heart rate elevate now, but in 3 years maybe not so much (Assuming I do it daily maybe).  Your muscles get stronger so your body is more efficient. Isn't that like the mechanism of addiction? 

(My name is clickstation and I'm a recovering exerciser.)  I had a girlfriend who said she was physically addicted to running. I believe her. She ran so much that her menstruation stopped. 

There's a long distance hiker who says he used to be addicted to hiking. He hiked ultralight, so we're not talking about a giant smokestack on his back. He hiked so much and for so long that he'd start hallucinating. He finished the Pacific Crest Trail, turned around, and walked back to Mexico... multiple times. He's a cool guy, though.  Whoa.. Is that safe? Not trying to be a Sour Sally here but has she checked with a doctor? I hope everything's okay!  Stuff like this is probably an addiction where you get a high from mastering an activity and push on to always improve. 

A guy in Norway won tons of local hiking competitions, pushed himself so much to the limit that he died on a fairly basic trip with his brother.  A sudden weather cool and wet change of weather sent him into shock and death. 

Edit ; Jon Tvedt,  I guess the the sport is called mountain running, a kind of human hillclimb. 

  She definitely needs to eat more. Also, http://www.radiolab.org/story/91710-limits-of-the-body/ You can become addicted to anything, its no exaggeration.  Anything at all that causes a release of feel good neurotransmitters (dopamine, serotonin, endorphins, etc) has the potential to cause psychological addiction. Exercise, food, drugs, sex, porn, anything really.  Generally not *really*.  Not unless you are very very very out of shape.  Out of shape to the point where simple tasks like walking to the bathroom or going up like 5 stairs increase your heart rate noticeably. 

 I'm breaking a sweat. Not paying too much attention to my heart rate. if you're sweating and/or breathing heavily it's exercise  Still trying to justify your gonewild addiction are you? You can also use the Borg scale of perceived exertion.  It's what we recommend to patients after a heart attack who either had a heart transplant or are on beta blockers for the appropriate exercise level Is there any proof that high intensity exercise will have greater benefits than moderate or low intensity exercise? Yes, but the benefits are not nearly as much. I.e not linear. The WSJ well blog has had some great summaries of recent studies [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Any type of drumming is good cardio if you play hard enough. Part of my success in losing weight was daily sessions of 1-2 hours of intense drumming. No stopping, 20-30 song playlist. Headphones on and all systems go. Now imagine how many calories you could burn if you were sweating dicks on stage under 300 lights playing for 3 straight hours. No wonder John Bonham was so tiny! [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] (Serious) does that mean masturbation would count if it increases my heart rate? My guess would be that the increase in HR is mostly from neurological excitement rather than from physical exertion. On a similar note, nicotine which increases your heart rate won't cause the effects of exercise (even ignoring the effects of administration ie. Smoking) so if I masturbate 30 minutes a day, does that count. That increases heart rate   Well, that's still elevating your heart rate. I suggest switching hands once in a while though.  Try an app like Couch To 5k or something. It makes it very simple but also pushes you. It's like "walk for a minute, now jog for a minute", I'm only on day three and it's already getting easier. Will look into it, thank you. It should be sufficient to raise your heart rate and cause you to sweat, but it need nit be more intense than that.  Is there any bad side of it being more intense than that? Or does it just improve? Depends on your condition. If you're coming from completely sedentary, it's best to stick with light/moderate exercise for a while and slowly ramp up the intensity as you adapt.  As you get more fit, wouldn't the things that cause you to swear or elevate you heart rate, be more physically demanding than someone less fit than you? Over exertion, especially occurring often, can damage the body. I think the point is that maintaining a certain level of exertion, no matter your fitness, is beneficial in the long run. Though, if you needed to improve faster for some reason, sports, work, etc. you would probably want to exercise harder. Of course, I'm sure that can lead to serious injury.

I'm not a doctor though, just someone who reads a lot of useless information. But some activity, whether it be walking around town for an hour or two, is better than nothing and has been shown to be related to better health outcomes! The general rule I learned in medical school is that your heart rate should stay between 65-85% of your maximum heart rate for your physical activity to be beneficial, with your maximum heart rate being estimated as 220 minus your age. For any given person, target heart rate, as well as the difficulty of exercise required to reach the target heart, rate can differ a whole lot.

For me at 21 years old, my max heart rate would be around 199 beats per minute, and so I need to aim for 65-85% of 199 for my exercise to count toward my weekly total, or about 130- 170 beats per minute. If I can get my heart rate to 130+ beats per minute just walking around town, then yes, absolutely, that will count toward my 2 hour per week goal. You can measure your heart rate relatively easily with any watch that has a second-hand just by counting your pulse, usually in your wrist or your neck. Count your pulse for 30 seconds, multiply by 2, and there you go! Alternatively, you can invest in a heart rate monitor-- there are even some that will keep track of how long you keep your heart rate within your target window.

Hope this helps! Do these include weightlifting or just cardiovascular exercise? Weightlifting (well strength technically) appears to have an additive effect to cardiovascular exercise. However, cardiovascular fitness appears to be better at decreasing mortality than strength.

This study compared the bottom, middle and top 3rd of strength in a group of patients and looked at mortality rate to a range of conditions (primarily cancer and old age).  The basic message is that the stronger you are the longer you live. In terms of cardiovascular "fit" patients those in the bottom 3rd of strength were more likely to die than those in the top 2/3rds. However, cardiovascular fitness appeared to have a bigger effect on decreasing mortality than strength. It's important to note that only strength was measured not if they weight lifted. 

Study: http://www.bmj.com/content/337/bmj.a439 Strength training has a bunch of other quality of life benefits, though.  Definitely, I didn't mean don't do strength training just that from a mortality point increased cardiovascular fitness seems to have a bigger effect. CV and strength training have overlapping and distinct benefits. From a quality of life point of view, increased strength and resistance programs in elderly patients improve quality of life and help maintain independence. I assumed you knew that given your flair. Just thought that it was worth bringing up for discussion. Weight lifting absolutely counts, but it helps to do it in a way that keeps your heart rate elevated for the duration of your exercise. Resistance training can have cardiovascular effects. Think about it, what does "cardio" exercise typically imply? Elevating the heart rate...right? Well, when you lift weights, what happens? Your heart rate increases. Your heart rate will increase more rapidly with a higher intensity (i.e. more weight), however you can not perform a high intensity exercise for long without rest. This is essentially why you get a different cardiovascular adaptation from low intensity/long duration exercise compared to high intensity/short duration exercise. With that said, you will still likely get adequate cardiovascular responses from resistance training as long as you train for long enough. The more sets you perform (as long as intensity is adequate) the more often your heart rate elevates. A 45-minute to 1 hour workout should be adequate even with appropriate rest intervals interspersed.  
Also as Lemming233 pointed out resistance training has an additive effect to cardiovascular training. This is because as I mentioned earlier, it stresses the body in a different way. Your body adapts to stress. However, it adapts specifically. When you alter the stress, you alter the adaptation. It's Selye's principle of General Adaptation Syndrome.   
However, recent research has shown that strength may be a bigger predictor of mortality than cardiovascular fitness. Leg strength has been shown to be the #1 predictor of mortality, even over VO2max. This is why resistance training is now being used for hypertensive and cardiac rehab patients in hospitals across the nation.  
Last thing...weightlifting is a sport consisting of the snatch and clean &amp; jerk.  Not to mention how excellent cardio makes you feel. I can't imagine my life without it. If I can't do cardio for a few days for whatever reason, I'm more sluggish, less confident, and restless. You bring up a great point about just putting your shoes on and doing **something**. LPT for anyone struggling to get moving: if you can't bring yourself to go exercise, just put your exercise clothes on and then try convincing yourself. Even more points if you force yourself to go outside or to the gym. Often we convince ourselves that things are much worse than they are. You **can** do it, guys. [deleted] The rule of thumb is that the exercise should raise the rate of your heartbeat and cause you to sweat. If it does not make your heart beat faster and cause you to feel tiered afterwards, it is not enough. You do not need to push yourself to the point where you are exhausted, but it needs to be more than just casually walking from one place to another. 

Now, having said that, going for a walk is certainly better than sitting still. It is just insufficient for getting most of the benefits from exercise, but it is of course an improvement from doing nothing at all.  Considering the number of people who are asking about walking I'm wondering if some of them feel they can't move much faster. In those cases I would recommend elevation gain. A steep hill can get your heart rate up even with a regular walking pace. I suspect it's more wanting to know if what they're already doing as part of a normal day would count, or if they have to start working out.  There's also been a lot of press recently about walking daily being more important than serious weekly exertion. It has people like me, who exercise to exhaustion twice a week but don't get to walk too much each day, wondering if we are doing things wrong. /r/ingress How do these studies control for people who are able to exercise more because they are in better health to begin with, and people who stop exercising because their health no longer allows it? 

If someone who exercises an hour a day but is no longer able to do that after suffering heart failure or developing COPD, dies a few years later, do they get counted as a death in the non exercising group or in the exercising group? How about someone who never exercised because their health was poor to begin with? In other words, is exercise a cause or a side effect of a lower chance of death? So myself as a city carrier (mail man) will live forever?  I'm no scientist, but exercise is paramount to our species if you want to speak about it in pre-societal nature. Our bodies need it, and if you don't then you're going to suffer the results. What I sometimes wonder is how much exercise will result in detrimental affects on your health and body. What is are the limits before the added stress and potential wear and tear of the body, the possible negative effects outweigh the benefits?   When you run for so long that your nipples bleed it's too much.  How strenuous does it have to be to be considered physical activity? Plenty of people in blue collar jobs get several hours of physical activity per day I posted a reply to somebody else that may help with what is physical activity.  

An interesting side note/point is that the original studies of benefits of physical activity actually came from observations of the incidence of heart attacks between bus drivers and conductors on London buses. Bus drivers were significantly more likely to have heart disease than the conductors - so same environment but one is sitting and the other is standing and get on and off the bus. These studies were published in the 1950 and 60s and an example of one can be seen here (from 1958) if anyone is interested (I think it's open access - at uni so not sure but it's PMC)  

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2027542/pdf/brmedj03082-0009.pdf

EDIT: took out exercise and replaced with physical activity It really may not be the sitting and standing which causes the difference. Consider that bus drivers in particular have high incidence of hypertension compared to other sitting jobs. It might be the constant attention drivers must pay to safety issues and keeping on schedule.  That's true and one of the points they and others looked at in more detail later on in subsequent studies. This lead to comparison of a wider range of jobs and the effects of physical activity and exercise on life expectancy, with being more physically active correlating to increased life expectancy.  
 I might also have a lot to do with the person driving. My grandfather is a bus driver, and he enjoys just sitting back and following whatever route he's on.  Same example I was taught in class. The benefits are astounding from such a minuscule amount of exercise. I wish I could get a calorie count of how much I burn doing my job. It's manual labor doing landscaping/yard-work type work, and we go for 8 hours straight. Doesn't feel like much when we're doing it but my body screams for days afterwards so it must be doing something. That's a hard thing to quantify because you burn calories just by being alive, and 8 hours a really long time. It's at least 700 depending on you build for that entire time period. Add on the fact that you are moving around a lot and you could very well burn double that amount. Use your phone or such? 
I downloaded the Fitbit app a few weeks ago and use it with my iPhone 6 just for fun to see my miles and steps throughout the day. I'm a chef btw. I know it's not super accurate but it's a free way to get an idea of the day and different days of walking and Calorie burn.. Isn't there anyway I can be healthy and fit and still die early? Cocaine is a helluva drug. Construction work. Keeps you healthy and fit, and then you trip and fall off a roof, or a truck backs up over you, or a cable snaps and a crane load crushes you. Even better you can be like a roofer in the area who tripped on his lanyard and fell off the roof and was swung back head first into the wall and trip to ICU and deadsies. cancer I work a job that requires me to be on my feet all day. I walk an average of 10 miles per shift, 4 times a week. I also lift and carry boxes that weigh between 25 and 50 lbs all day. I've been doing this for the past 10 years. Essentially I'm getting paid to work out, and am in great shape because of it. Mail carrier?  UPS/FedEx driver? Long shoreman? I am genuinely curious what you do.    Probably a warehouse operative. Amazon staff are expected to do about 10 miles at least per shift.  I picture them all on Segway scooters for some reason.  He described my job. I work in warehouse as a shipping clerk. At times it can be good exercise. I figure that it's better than sitting in an office chair all day. But the nature of the job (and this applies for ups/fed ex/usps drivers and handlers as well) requires us to move in ways that are unnatural. Several package delivery drivers I know have had severe back, knee, and hip problems and sometimes it required them to get surgery. I don't have any proof except for my own experience, but standing on concrete all day can't be good for the body.

EDIT: oh and I usually work out at the end of the day as a way of correcting the damage done at work. Yep, I worked unloading boxes for only about 2 years and I only started having back problems then. 

I got muscles in places that I never expected muscles to appear, but I also find myself audibly groaning when I bend over sometime because of the unnatural lifting that I ended up doing damaged my mid/upper-back.  A Fedex warehouse guy did an AMA a few weeks ago and had similar numbers, so that's probably it. It's only recently that this hasn't been the case for most of society. Historically, most people worked in agriculture. And historically, agriculture has been very strenuous work for humans.  I am getting paid to sit in a comfy chair all day and move my eyes which stare at an unnaturally bright object for 8 to 10 hours. I pickup a small weight from time to time to a hight of a couple millimeters. It weighs 102 grams. 

I'll live forever, right? You are probably over-training. Can you cut down to a 50 gram weight? Just started a job thats pretty much the same! I'm already seeing results and getting paid to work out is an awesome feeling! Don't do like I've started to do lately and binge eat like hell, I'm not gaining weight but I'm not losing anymore either. This is the problem all the movers I know have. Work our asses off so we get hungry as shit and bam there come back all the calories.  That's awesome, good for you! It seriously is great when you can do a job that requires physical labor that puts a moderate amount of stress on your body and allows you to be active. 

When I was in the fitness industry, though, I saw a lot of there guys. Our gym was near a UPS hub, so we did a lot of on sites at the request of the management. "My job is my workout! I don't need to do anything else!" But these guys never stretched, the ate like shit, and they were firm believers that their pot bellies, bad backs, and constant soreness were the result of aging and a "physically demanding" job. They refused to accept that adding in a well-balanced workout routine that focused on strength and mobility would make their jobs easier, prevent injuries, and keep them healthier. 

What I'm trying to say is that I'm glad you feel your job keeps you in shape, but take some time to really evaluate your health. Don't fall into that trap.  [deleted] Just walk. There are an overwhelming number of benefits to it. Not just physically, but mentally too. It's amazing what it can do for you.  I went from 280 to 230 lbs in six months by walking an hour a day at least 3x a week. I restricted most of my Podcasts/audiobooks to when I was walking for motivation. That's awesome. Good job.  Awesome job! I do the same with TV shows since I'll run on the treadmill and can watch Netflix. I'll restrict the shows I'm REALLY into for workout shows. That way the motivation to watch more overpowers the lack of motivation to exercise.  nice How far / fast were you walking? About 3 miles. Normal walking pace. I didn't speed walk or power walk etc.. Gandhi said his nightly walks helped him think. 

Works for me.  But I mean, weight wasn't really a problem for him...

I kid, glad it's working for you! Yep. This, and cutting soda out of his diet, is how my dad went from overweight with a bit of a belly to slimmer than my older brother in less than a year. Walking an hour or two, every day, rain or shine (thanks to a treadmill with a TV in front, for particularly cruddy days).

I've heard that technically, you can get just about all the exercise you *need* for healthy body maintenance with just walking and doing pushups. Not sure how valid it is, but boy does my dad look sprightly these days! I'll take my chances. Walking meditation is a pretty neat thing.  It's popular among Daoists, so hit up your local daoist if you want to get super into it. Good luck, there's not too many around. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I think someone should compile all these studies we see on this site into a nice graph. I feel like some put upper bounds on how long you live, and others give lower. Someone could make a graph that shows you X amount of exercise Y days a week yields Z extra days of life. Then I can pick exactly how long I want to live. 
 It is really humorous to me how the headline never matches up with the reality. We like to distill things until they fit into perfect little boxes but the truth is that reality is infinitely complex... I wish more people considered this in their daily lives. As someone who exercises quite frequently, I have to be honest, I don't necessarily enjoy it. Today as cardio I rode 50 miles on my bike and it sucked. It's tiring, it hurts and it takes forever. However, the feeling and benefits I get from exercising are well worth it. It's not easy to stay consistent and it's hard work, but it's all worth it. It also gives you something to be proud of, which is always nice.  Have you thought about trying different forms of excercise? Stationary bikes are going to bore the average person no matter how much they love fitness. Maybe a competitive rec league sport?

I find its way easier to make fitness a lifelong commitment when its based around things that you love to do for their own sake, rather than a chore you force yourself to do grudgingly. 

One of my best friends is a generally inactive guy who hasn't been to a gym in years, but he's been a great basketball player since childhood, and although I probably couldn't pay him enough to run 5 miles (let alone bike 50) he wouldn't miss his weekly 2 hour pickup session unless his leg was broken I read that as "bike" not stationary bike, i.e. outdoors. I used to ride 15-20 miles regularly with my wife and it was hella tiring and awesome at the same time. Not sure why my mind immediately went to stationary bike. Although I haven't done it since I was a kid, I'd imagine the visual stimulation and experience of exploring would make biking an inherently enjoyable activity for a lot of people  50 miles though. The biggest thing for me is the rush of fresh air, particularly going down a big hill after working your ass off to get to the top. It's thousands of times better than stationary biking. You couldn't pay me enough to switch road/trail biking for stationary biking - it's nowhere near to the same activity Endorphins can be pretty intoxicating but there are much easier ways of getting high to be sure. Find something you do enjoy.  There are countless activities you could participate in.  Boxing, soccer, hiking, etc...  You don't need to just go to a gym and hit the treadmill/weights. This is a good point I've only just begun to appreciate. I recently started yet another attempt at exercising (really hope I can make it stick, lost 30 lbs via dieting and have hit the flabby wall which only sweat and suffering can break) but I feel like this one of the things that is important to understand.

Especially for people like myself who have hated working out for most of their lives.

My healthy friends talk about loving working out and endorphins and second winds and all that. 

All I have experienced is suffering. But, recently, something's clicked in my brain. Suffering? So what. Exercising sucks. It's uncomfortable. It's painful. It's boring. But it's literally the only way to not be overweight, frail, and sickly. It's not an *option*, this is something all humans have to do. I have to just suck it up and do it. 30-40 mins every other day is a pittance... And the reward is priceless.

Maybe it's part of growing up. I'm turning 26 soon and I feel like I've simply had enough of being overweight   
\\\_()\_/ Not to bash exercise  I love exercise  but if your goal is losing weight, diet is far more important.

Yesterday I ran 8.9km in 1h10'. According to a calorie calculator, that's 475 calories for my body. That's less than one large serving of fries. &gt; Exercising sucks. It's uncomfortable. It's painful. It's boring. But it's literally the only way to not be overweight, frail, and sickly. It's not an option, this is something all humans have to do.

You are so right on this, do not EVER lose sight of it. My wife and I spent time caring for her mom in the last years of her life. She had COPD and was hooked up to an oxygen mask 24/7 and weighed 90-100lbs at any given time. She was extremely frail and could barely move 1lb weights for therapy. Her lungs were only about 25% effective. She had no energy to get up and move around at all.

My wife was always active but had spent a lot of time doing cardio. After watching her mom go through this and being worried about herself she added weight training. She now breathes far better than she did before, is much more stable on her feet, and walks faster (and now runs faster!) than she did before. She watched her mom waste away and declared she would not allow that to happen to her, and damn if she isn't making that a reality.

So you are absolutely 100% on the ball with this attitude, trust me. [And always remember...](https://hardcorezen.info/wp-content/uploads/2013/03/nevergiveup.png) &gt; and have hit the flabby wall which only sweat and suffering can break) but I feel like this one of the things that is important to understand.

This wall doesn't exist. 

As you do down in weight, so does your TDEE. So if your TDEE used to be 3000 calories, and you started eating 2500 calories to drop some fat, that 500 calorie deficit would shrink as you go down in weight, until it would become your new TDEE, at which point you need to further restrict your diet.  That's fair--but it exists for me as a person. 

It was painless to reduce my diet from uncontrolled hedonism to about 2000-1900 cals/day. Trying to reduce that further has left me at a plateau for the last two years so instead I've opted to try and get the extra calories out via exercise. 

There are only two ways to lose weight--diet or exercise. Seems folly to not try both, I guess. Just something to watch out for,  exercise will generally increase your appetite, potentially to the point where it will significantly retard weight loss.  So select a calorie deficit ahead of time,  and start counting calories religiously.   If you're having issues with satiety, look up high satiety foods you can eat.   Protein, which for me is in the form of baked chicken breasts, fill me up very well without having to resort to stuff like eating pounds of broccoli every day.  &gt;I rode 50 miles on my bike 

Is that your normal workout? Doesn't that take like 3-4 hours to do? Even at Tour de France pace, it would be a two hour workout.  Of course, you need extra time for the blood doping. &gt; you need extra time for the blood doping.

Where do I find that activity on my Fitbit? I love cycling and have rode 4 hours+ at once, I can't imagine spending that much time doing something I didn't like though.OP should look into something else like basketball or football, or swimming.Exercise does NOT have to be un-fun, not even close. Everything that doesn't slowly kill you is linked to a lower risk of early death. 15 minutes of exercise first thing in the morning can go a long way I've never understood first thing in the morning. I'm always starved when I first get up. Is there better results from doing it when you first get up as opposed to later on in the day? I can't speak to better results but I think most people say to do it first thing in the morning so they can get it over with and not be tempted to procrastinate later when it comes time to work out. People are different though. I have trouble waking up so I don't have time usually in the mornings I love first thing in the morning exercise. During the week, I go after work and I'm so tired that exercise seems harder. When I can get up and do it right away, which I do on the weekends, I just have so much more energy. I always eat after exercise though. I'll get an upset stomach if I eat before.  When I just wake up I am usually not hungry at all, it usually comes a few minutes after, so I guess it helps. Oh and most people suggest drinking a glass of water right before waking up before doing the exercise. 

I think the point of doing the exercise right as you wake up is that it wakes you up faster and prepares your body for the day. In the morning I am usually groggy and thus will do things slower, but if I exercise first I won't be groggy and I can get on with my morning routine faster. It also puts you in a good mental state. I definitely would recommend at least doing some exercise before going to work/school.

An important thing to keep in mind is that you aren't doing heavy weights right after waking up. My 15 minute morning exercise is a mix of static isometric exercises (such as planks, side planks, superman, etc) and plyometrics (explosive type exercises, such as jumping up and down squat-style, or explosive push ups). The point of these exercises is to wake up my body and prepare it for the day, not to build muscle.

I also do weights, but you can do those any time during the day imo, just not as part of your morning routine (because to gain muscle you need peak performance, and the reason you even do morning exercises is because we tend to not be at peak performance when we wake up). Thank you. I appreciate your reply. Very good advice I didn't start exercising until late in life... now I work out every day for at least 30 minutes. I don't know if it will help me live longer but it does burn calories I can use to eat more (I was once over 300lbs heavier). Starting exercise, even late in life is always beneficial. it's kind of like stopping smoking in that regard. The big thing people don't realize is that exercise isn't really about extending your life drastically longer. It's about improving the quality of life in those later years. So you spend less total time being below a disability threshold (where you can no longer function alone) in your later years.  Exercise and diet are really the best things you can do for yourself I don't see how a person COULDN'T get thirty minutes of physical activity a day. Wouldn't you really have to be trying to not move, walk, or generally use your body for only a short period of time? Thirty minutes is nothing at all. I work from home doing software development and spend most of my leisure time on the computer or watching media. 

I force myself to run 3-4 days/week, otherwise I probably wouldn't get any physical activity.  Same here. I do web development and work from home and my hobbies are mostly computer-related. I hit the gym 4 days a week to keep in shape. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Honest Question, what age is the cutoff for being defined as "early death" ? Whatever is lower than average I would guess What is considered as 40% physical activity? Actual work out or is taking your bike to work enough? 30 minutes in total or at once (just like in  jogging 40 minute at once is more effective than two times 20 minutes)? 

Did they account for the additional risks e.g. taking your bike to work is arguably more dangerous than taking the bus. Pretty sure compared to zero, five minutes a day will prove to decrease early deaths as well. Unless you cross a lot of busy roads. What about 4 times a week for 1 hour? Legit : would vigorous sex count?  absolutely [deleted] I would definitely have a hard time motivating myself to work out if I lived in a cold state. Yeah, it doesn't work for everyone. There is still plenty of willpower involved. What about doing a sport, if any, that you like? I dislike jogging for long distances, but I'll chase after a soccer ball all day. I don't doubt that exercise could lead you to live a healthier longer life. BUT I hate the way correlation causation fallacy is always at the top of reddit science. 

Bedridden dying people have a hard time getting physical activity 6 days a week. So OF COURSE they are linked. 'People sending get-well-soon cards linked to early death' Is this interesting? No This is similar to a government funded and supported campaign here in New Zealand that featured prominently in the last decade. The campaign was started by Sports and Recreation New Zealand (Sparc) (who are know Sport New Zealand) and was known as 'Push Play". Posters for "Push Play" were all over the place when I was in primary school and the ads were always on TV, with the jingle '30 minutes a day you gotta Push Play'. Cheesy rhymes are of course the best way to get people active. Seemed like a great thing to me, a shame the most recent government overhauled the sporting sector and this campaign has all but disappeared (to my knowledge)  

Links for the curious: 

* http://beehive.govt.nz/release/move-it-or-lose-it-%E2%80%93-push-play-30-minutes-day (excuse the old website)
* http://www.teara.govt.nz/en/video/41709/push-play-advertisement (old TV ads
* http://www.stuff.co.nz/sunday-star-times/sport/2380485/Push-Play-era-over-as-National-set-new-path (Change in policy)

tldr; New Zealand had a campaign that promoted this same research philosophy called 'Push Play' in the last decade What if I just lifted weights and didn't do cardio? So is there a expected net gain of lifetime to working out? half an hour six times a week is 3 hours a week or 156 hours a year. Over a lifetime (~80 years)  that would be 12480 hours or roughly 1 year. So do you live more than 1 year extra? then there is the question of valuable life, most people would probably agree that life is more valuable when you are young, Most people would carve out a year from their eighties and add a year to their twenties if given the chance. So the time spent working out is more valuable than the time gained which must also be taken into account. I think the important thing here to consider is quality of life getting to that late age. The machine that is your body breaks down over time.  You don't just wake up at 80 with frailties; your old age problems begin with something small that worsens over time, or something catastrophic that you never quite fully recover from earlier in life. Being active and conditioning your machine gives you more able-bodied years, lessens the likelihood you're going to have a stroke in your 50s, and lets you live long enough to perhaps have better control over your ultimate destiny. It won't prevent accidents or cancer or hypervirulent strains of listeria in your ice cream, but it adds life to your years. [deleted] TIL: most redditors will die young and early. This is not new news. The ACSM has had similar guidelines forever. Can someone explain whether they accounted for healthier men possibly being more active because they were already healthier? Apple Watch anybody? Hardcoded to exactly 30 minutes of exercise as one of the metrics. This is basically running 3 miles a day. Which if you do run 3 miles a day 6 days a week, you will be in healthy shape in no time if your not already.

EDIT: Switched some words. If only I could go on reddit and exercise at the same time  Treadmill desk. Here's something I always post way too late to be seen when this topic comes up.

We should put more effort toward native pollinators like mason and leafcutter bees.

European honeybees are colonial, those other two are not. They create their own nests (and you can too - just hang a board with a bunch of holes drilled in it outside) that aren't susceptible to CCD. They're actually more efficient pollinators than honeybees so you need fewer bees per acre. This is very true. I have a lot of mason bee stacks too, and they are the real athletes for pollination compared to my Italian colonies. Rain or shine, they are infinitely harder working. I value them more than my honeybees for pollination, at least at the start of the season.  [deleted] You can literally take a 2x4, drill some holes in it, and sit it on your outside window sill, curb, front porch, etc.  Don't install it on your car or truck because bees don't have the ability to follow their colony after it has moved 70mph across town.

The mason and leafcutter bees are tiny and they are harmless as flies.  They don't sting or bite.  Just pollinate  So I drill holes in a piece of wood and a version of bee makes it their home? Seems this would just give me a board with holes in it propped against my shed or something, doing nothing. Does geography matter? Type of wood? I'd love to help out our bee buddies, but an apiarist I am not. Just getting into Mason bees! Had our first bees this spring and they really are little workhorses! Our fruit trees have an insane amount fruit already. 

Mason bees are also super easy to maintain - and companys like [Crown Bees](http://crownbees.com/) have so many educational resources available, it's really difficult to fail. They also will buy back extra larvae at the end of each season if your brood is getting too big. 

Big fan of mason bees over here.   So why doesn't everyone just have mason bees? No honey? Is there any reason why mason bees can't cover what honey bees are not getting. Serious I have no idea anything about bees and just want to learn.  I suppose it's because they don't make honey... Mason bees are only active for for a short spring season, versus much longer for honey bees. You can't domesticate them really, you just have to help what's already there. Honeybees are also more visible, so people think they do more... But yeah. Farmers are starting to realise this, I did some monitoring for a test farm where they put out a few  bundles of bamboo for nests. There were masons *everywhere* and the fruit was delicious. No honeybees added, no drop in crop. &gt; We should put more effort toward native pollinators like mason and leafcutter bees.

Friend of mine just finished his MS on this topic. Here in Colorado, there are a few bumblebee species that are great pollinators. My friend said that you can make nests for them easily using white PVC pipe. Just cut into short lengths and put it somewhere high and sheltered (think of places you'd find wasp nests). He said you can also get a big piece of wood and drill a ton of ~1cm holes in it.  Question, What prevents wasps from making a nest there instead? Just texted him, 

Edit: he said wasps will totally live in there too. 

~~but I think it's because the tubes are small. Paper wasps don't build their nests in such small places. They might still build nests around rafters and stuff, but in that case there's no change from the status quo.~~ To start, bumblebees are eusocial and have small colonies with funny hives. The solitary bees that would reside in small holes probably superficially resemble bumblebees, but live much differently. Carpenter bees are often mistaken for bumblebees, for instance.

Technically, nothing but you is keeping wasps from taking up residence in your newly fashioned '[bee hotel](http://www.foxleas.com/bee_house.htm).' 

But they wouldn't be the wasps you typically worry about anyway. You'd get mostly solitary wasps, including some cuckoo wasps and parasitoids. They are important predators and help keep the populations of other insects in check. Some of them are also pollinators, and fulfill the same role in the ecosystem as solitary bees.

Regarding eusocial wasps and their nests-

The more aggressive Vespids (namely Vespinae) are notorious because they build their nests underground, out of sight, and then sting the crap out of anyone that walks by.

Some hornets and other aerial wasps are perceptively more docile since their nests are more visible. I'd say that *foraging* yellowjackets aren't that aggressive to begin with, they just lack any sense of personal space... and I guess they're easily agitated.

Even native eusocial wasps are important  to keep around. Again, plenty of species are pollinators, but also importantly, they are predators. Willingness to submerge the entire board in acid. My last house had a ground bee "infestation" in the back yard. I loved it! Bees that live in the ground and don't sting ever! And great native pollinators to boot! I used to just sit in the back yard and watch them. They like to meander a few inches above the ground, so the whole yard just looked like it was moving. Really hypnotizing to watch.
 Don't forget the mining bees! Amateur beekeeper for about 40 years. Doesn't mean much, but I live in an area where I lose about 1 in 5 hives a year over several years. My rural neighborhood sees about 80% losses (possibly higher) from about a dozen other keepers. They all live in or are adjacent to people with manicured lawns (i.e. chemically green lawns and gardens). When my neighbor had corn growing behind my place, my losses were close to 50%. When he switched to grass hay, after a year, my losses went down a lot. 

I am very intrusive with the bees. I pull every single frame apart at least once a month, and do very intrusive inspections every week. I treat twice a year for varroa with formic acid, regardless of mite drop testing. I rarely see more than 2-3 mites drop in a 24 hour period. I use menthol crystals to control any tracheal mites that might be present. I don't tolerate nosema,and treat aggressively with fumagillin. This is especially important because my neighbor hives are all covered with bee crap half the time. I can't convince them to use chemicals...they are nosema factories. I keep alive one of my immediate neighbor's bees by putting out fumagillin treated sugar water feeders on my property by one of them. The hive by the feeder lives half the years (they usually forget to insulate their hives, or they get mites), the one on the other side that had a fountain nearby to drink from dies every single year. They seem to think they have bad luck. They have no clue I feed their "good" bees fumagillin before the honey flow. They would be horrified. It keeps my bees safe from the Grim Reaper- Nosema. 

Bottom line- take care of your bees if you have them. That means treatment. If you don't, you are also killing others' bees right along with yours. The dainty nature-will-do-what-is-best-for-my-incredibly-engineered-artificial-bee-environment is just silly in light of what we face every year. It is like letting your dogs and cats run around the neighborhood without parvo and rabies vaccinations- it might work, but when it doesn't, it REALLY doesn't. 

*edit: losses went down first paragraph.  &gt; When he switched to grass hay, after a year, my losses crashed.

I'm a little confused by the wording here. When you say your losses crashed do you mean you began having less losses or more losses?

 My losses dropped to their present level after the corn finally left. I only bring it up because spray damage is real. Nonetheless, focusing on disease has worked for me more or less better than worrying about others using poison everywhere. Personally and with minimal scientific support, I suspect that having both chemicals and disease present might be far worse than either alone. At least I can make a difference with disease, and count myself lucky on chemical exposure. Thank you for telling us your story.  I have been trying to get the word out about pesticides and their direct effect on bees making them more prone to disease.  This is a real issue and people seem to ignore this and say it must be some other reason. 

Thinking rationally pesticides and chemicals that are made to kill off unwanted weeds and bugs surly can hurt bees too! A friend lost 4 out of her 5 hives last year when the mosquito spray truck came down her driveway. (She had a marker indicating she did not want him  to spray). It was a terrible loss That's heartbreaking... &gt;Thinking rationally pesticides and chemicals that are made to kill off unwanted weeds and bugs surly can hurt bees too! 

That's even the double edged sword with natural methods available for my garden. Neem oil for example, should **only** be sprayed at dawn or dusk, when bee populations shouldn't be active because it can hurt the bees. 

Unless pesticides have been engineered with keeping bees safe in mind(which I hope is in the works) I don't trust that they wouldn't play a part.  Also shouldn't be applied when plants are flowering. 

Best to do it before or after the flowering cycle. 

&gt;Unless pesticides have been engineered with keeping bees safe in mind(which I hope is in the works) I don't trust that they wouldn't play a part.

That's not really how they manufacture pesticides though. It would be nice though. For example, provaunt is a chemical I spray to kill annual bluegrass weevils. It works by blocking calcium receptors and paralyzing the jaw of the insect when they bite it and they starve to death. It will work the same on any insect with these calcium receptors. It's not like a weevil gene they plug in to only work on weevils. It has activity on other insects as well. Unfortunately bees shares receptors with insects largely considered pests and the mode of action of these pesticides work on bees too.  [deleted] Earlier he said he loses 1 in 5 or 20%, so I think he meant that his losses crashed from 50% to 20% So less loss means more good, right?  I'd imagine I lost 20 pounds, and my weight CRASHED.  It was a DEVASTATING BLOW to my weight in that it NEGATIVELY AFFECTED my weight. The appeal to nature seems ubiquitous these days even when deleterious. Thank you for taking good care of your bees. Right? I am all for natural solutions to natural problems, but sometimes a problem that doesn't occur naturally needs a fix that nature doesn't typically provide. I have a question to ask if you wouldn't mind amswering, I've been searching for someone who could enlighten me a bit. I found a large beehive in a very small brush area in the inner city of Tampa bay. Its mostly invasive plants with little native vegetation but its almost a secret area. The area also over the last five years shrunk due to housing developments being built all around it. This bee hive is very large and I didn't get an upclose look at it albeit it in a dead tree at eye level. My question to you is this, from an environmental management point of view, I wonder whether the bees would be better suited in the long run to have them moved to an actual bee keepers hive or to stay until they are inevitable encroached upon. I do know the africanized bees have been taking over hives all through my area and I'm not sure if they are native or africanized. This old beekeeper fellow that comes into my place of work said that if I took him to them, he would remove them and put them safely on his property. Should I show them where they are? He said he would give me the honey but I honestly only care about the bees. Get a photo of at least one bee and post it on craigslist. Someone will probably come remove it for free if they are, in fact, honey bees (hence the photo needed). The impression I get is that colonies are pretty much always going to do better with a responsible keeper. Wild honey bees are likely just someone's hive at some point in the past. If it were me, I'd leave them. If they get diseased, they will die without intervention. It happens all the time. There are bee colonies all over within several hundred yards of my home, and nobody knows about them unless they take the interest to notice. If they africanize, on the other hand...yikes. If you saw them, and had any around you, and they didn't seem interested, it is not likely. I've encountered an africanized colony (with protection). You get within 30-40 yards of it, the buzz pitch goes up and they most definitely take an interest. You would know if they were africanized if you got close to them. 

In the mean time, they provide a source of food for birds, rodents, and other insects, sources of healthy swarms a few times a year, and have other benefits for the environment (pollination, to name just one).   Why are bees so fragile? They are a keystone species, while roaches hardly do anything and they are all over the place. You would think the ecological need for bees would be greater because they are so necessary.  Commercial honeybees are not native, and we do a whole lot of crazy things to them like truck their hives around different farms. There are [thousands of native bee species](http://bugguide.net/node/view/475348) in North America, most of which are [solitary, not social](http://www.xerces.org/pollinator-conservation/native-bees/):.
&gt; the vast majority of bees, nearly four thousand species in the U.S., are solitary nesting. They tend to create and provision a nest on their own, without cooperation with other bees. Although they often will nest together in great numbers when a good nesting area is found, the bees are only sharing a good nesting site (like people wanting to live in a beautiful, lakeside location!) and not cooperating.   I depend on mason bees and a large array of small solitary bees that probably do a lot better job of actually pollinating my orchard and the surrounding areas than my honeybees do. They are on the job through rain storms, they start work a lot earlier than the honeybees, etc. 

It would be great if more people made solitary bee habitats rather than thinking they really needed to get into honeybees. They require the amount of care that most people are willing to invest over the long haul- which is (almost) none at all.  Does solitary in this sense mean one bee, or one bee hive with possibly hundreds of bees? In this sense it means one bee -- the female makes a nest, mates, then lays eggs in a small nest with stored food. The adult bees usually live for just one year. The eggs hatch, eat the food, pupate, and emerge as adults the next year, to fly off and make a new nest.

The nest can be really simple or it can be complicated, but it has only one adult. See more [here](http://www.xerces.org/pollinator-conservation/native-bees/)

Some bees, like digger bees, will nest near to one another, but the nests do not interconnect and the bees are not genetically related to one another.

Bumblebees are social, and will have many bees in the nest. But most other native bees are not. The existence of solitary bees is blowing my mind a little. I'm addition to what others said, we also don't treat bees like we used to. A lot of major bee keepers move their hives around the country based on what's flowering at a particular time, farmers pay beekeepers to set up shop at the farm so that they can have bees to cross pollinate their fields. Because of this bees are exposed to many more types of pathogens than they were in the past. We also take the food they save for their young and replace it with sugar water which means bees aren't being the nutrition they evolved to require during their formative period.  &gt; We also take the food they save for their young and replace it with sugar water which means bees aren't being the nutrition they evolved to require during their formative period.

There is, as far as I know, no substantiating evidence for this: the idea that the sugar water fed to bee hives during the winter are actually deficient. So far, the science behind what's killing bees has been pointing to insecticide (shock!) and parasites.  &gt; We also take the food they save for their young and replace it with sugar water which means bees aren't being the nutrition they evolved to require during their formative period.

It is my understanding that bees produce vastly more honey than they actually need in ideal conditions in case of disasters.  Is this incorrect and do you have sources to back up your claim? Because evolution isn't directed and ~99% of every species that has ever lived has eventually gone extinct?

They also historically haven't evolved in an environment with artificial bee colonies (which breed disease) and pesticides (which kill bees).  So there's that as well.  The things that we're doing are changing the environment faster than evolution can adapt in many cases. It's not that bees are fragile per se, it's that they evolved along side flowering plants, but now we're messing pretty heavily with those flowering plants and the plants close to them. I don't do the beekeeper thing, but I am planting more flowers that are bee friendly. What else can I do? I don't treat my lawn, but I do wish I had a safe way to remove some weeds (it's an acre so manual removal is... problematic). I have several acres. I spent a few  hours a year getting rid of invasive stuff manually. I just dont like having to keep track of chemicals, and I hate using them. I guess I just tolerate some level of weeds, but it is a pretty minor problem for me.

As for pests, I use dormant oil early on the trees, mica dust in the garden (really very effective) and detergent on the trees later in the season. Timing is important, and you can learn about it. Cottling moths around here will cause 95% losses with no control, perhaps 5% loss with chemical controls, and around 20% losses with fairly lazy use of organic controls I mentioned. I'm ok with the partial losses since the goats and cows around here are fine with turning those bad apples and pears into milk.  you may already know this, but i'm adding this for anyone who might read it. bee-friendly flowers sold in big box stores often contain pesticides that are not good for bees! so try to get them from local farmers who can tell you how they grew them :) Amateur beekeeper? You just shattered Reddit with this knowledge bomb you just dropped. He went full pro.  Where are you located?  My dad's bees in NC are much lower maintenance.  He does treat for mites and has traps (that I have never seen work) but think that is it.    He might be lucky.  He might just have some strong hives.   It might be fewer neighbors with bad hives.  (I don't know of any neighbors with bees)  

There is a  good documentary on Netflix on what is happening to Bees.  It lays out some good common sense.   If you are transporting thousands of hives around in bad conditions... you are making a perfect storm for problems and spreading the problems.

   Just covered an entire year of work on this topic. There has been a large number of 'potential causes' for Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD). From mobile phones to genetically modified crops (yes there's published studies on mobile phones making honeybees go crazy). In parasitology it's agreed that one of the main culprits is the Varroa destructor (mite) that is a vector for the virus's that will kill the bees. Varroa itself won't actually kill the bees (imagine a monkey on your back, annoying but won't kill you, now give the monkey a gun). Most commonly transmitted by V. Destructor is Deformed Wing Virus.

Source: graduate of one of the top parasitology universities &gt;  Varroa destructor (mite) that is a vector for the virus's that will kill the bees. Varroa itself won't actually kill the bees (imagine a monkey on your back, annoying but won't kill you, now give the monkey a gun)

So kind of like how a mosquito bite won't kill you, but West Nile, Malaria or Dengue might? Pretty much. There's a chart listing what kills the most humans a year, and mosquitoes come top with 750k+, despite it being a collection of diseases that mosquitoes vector, and not a single cause. yeah but if you were to pinpoint it to a single pathogen, it would definitely be **malaria** ... Definitely the most frequent, CDC reports suggest 2013 mortality was 500k.

http://www.cdc.gov/malaria/about/facts.html [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Where can I find said chart? http://imgur.com/gallery/NEO7O8h

Edit: To highlight my point about it being vague and collective:


* **Mosquitoes**: 725k; Doesn't specify what is from Malaria [A protozoa], doesn't specify Flaviviridae viruses [Yellow Fever, Dengue, West Nile], etc.
* **Humans**: Likely covers gun related, other weapons, vehicular, etc.
* **Snakes**: You will have venomous [bites] as well as constrictors in that number.
* **Dogs**: Actually specifies rabies, but you will also get some mauling related deaths in there.
* **Tsetse fly**: Probably the first example of a specific cause. Tsetse flies are just another type of fly but grouped at the genera level [Glossinae], whereas Mosquitoes are grouped at the Family level, 1 level higher in magnitude. This is the same as comparing all panthers [Panthera: lions, tigers, ~~bears~~, panthers, leopards, jaguars] to all canids [Canidae: Dogs, wolves, foxes, everything.] Sure not all Mosquitoes are vectors but it can show how specialised vectors can be when you have just the Glossinae considered for Sleeping sickeness, but for Mosquito borne pathogens you have many more that are often exclusive such as Malaria being in the Anopheles genera, West Nile Virus associated with the Culex genera, Dengue associated with the Aedes genera.
* Matching Tsetse flies are in fact 2 other vectors of diseases which again highlight it's not the animal killing people, it's the disease they caused. Something to point out is that Sleeping sickness and Chagas disease are caused by different species of the same protozoa and are also referred to as African and American trypanosomiasis, respectively, as a result. Apart from differences in how the diseases affect hosts they have very different vectors. Sleeping sickness comes from Tsetse flies from the Diptera order of insects [same as Mosquitoes], Chagas disease comes from Assassin bugs (also called Kissing bugs), which are Hemiptera, a different order of insect. Hold up...explain the snail. Freshwater snails carries parasitic worms that they release into fresh water and cause Schistosomiasis when they then infect humans.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schistosomiasis Trematodes am I right? Wow, there are 10,000 human deaths by snails per year? I had ... no idea. Thing is most of the deaths on that list are caused by the disease associated with the animal [apart from snakes], with the exception of the larger animals which don't even number past 1k.

Snakes are likely an exception there due to the often fast acting nature of snake venom meaning you're pretty much dead if you're bitten and not near help within a day. With some snakes the venoms can be neurotoxins that kill within minutes. The black mamba is particularly notorious. If you get bitten by one of those out in the wilderness, and don't have the anti-venom with you, chances are you won't even make it to the hospital.  Surprised to not see ticks on there... I suppose the diseases that they carry are slower, debilitating diseases as opposed to fast killers? Something like that? Also suppose that ticks are less mobile and take longer to "attack" than mosquitos. A single mosquito can hit 5 or 6 people before expiring; ticks only ever really have the opportunity to attack a single target and only if they are able to mobilize past clothing and hair toward the dermis.

Edit: Re: the chart, a lot of diseases carried by ticks aren't often fatal either. Lyme, probably the most commonly cited disease carried by ticks, has an incredibly low mortality rate. Its morbidity is fair, but lyme is defeated by the simplest of antibiotics and doesn't often progress to cardiac failure (you'd see this most often in seniors afflicted by Lyme who already suffer from cardiac-related illnesses).  I was going to say, "monkey with a gun" was a pretty clunky analogy. A better analogy would have been mosquitoes with West Nile or be ticks carrying Lyme disease.  Could've just said "monkey with rabies", or "monkey with ebola". The monkey isn't what kills you, the disease you get from its bite is. [deleted] [deleted] Probably the reason he went with monkey is because of the comparative size between honeybees and this mite. An entolomigist guest lectuerer in my class compared it to the size/weight of a *bowling ball* attached to an an average human Now that is interesting! [deleted] [deleted] The varroa sucks the hemolyph that cripples the young bees, but also a vector for diseases like deformed wing that end up killing hives. So they get them two ways. So I remember about ten years ago it was the threat of killer bees coming up from Mexico that was threatening honey bee colonies.  Now it's some parasite?  These bees can't catch a break.   What happened to the killer bees? I thought America was supposed to be infested by them by now, by the way the news made it sound when I was a kid. 

Why aren't the bees killing me yet? Was that just exaggerative reporting or is it still a growing problem, or maybe even did we reverse it? 

They talk about the boars as the new popular invasive species. I think the bees scare me worse than the boars though, although the boars are definitely more harmful of an invasive species for ecosystems.  Africanized honeybees are still about, although whether they are an issue depends on the beekeeper you ask. They're much hardier (and aggressive) than the European bees most beekeepers keep in their hives. Some see this as an issue, the aggression is what caused the media reports and has some foundation to it. On the other hand, some beekeepers are attempting to crossbreed more resistant hives using Africanized bees, trying to find that right mix of resistance to docile nature.  
In any case, the pure Africanized bees don't do too well in cold climates. I live in the NE US and we don't see them anywhere. They may be more of an issue down south. Great comment. I just want to piggyback on this a little bit.

Two or three parasites and microorganisms make up a majority of bee death, this is true. Pesticides usually come into it because they: (a) can easily be fatal to bees in concentrations which aren't uncommon in US agricultural plots, and (b) reduce the strength of surviving bees' immune systems, making them more vulnerable to other causes of bee death. A comment below claims that neonicotinoids (common pesticide group) are not fatal to bees, so I'd like to set the record straight. A good source: http://ento.psu.edu/publications/are-neonicotinoids-killing-bees

Another thing: honeybees aren't native to the Americas! They were brought over from Europe in the 17th century. They're the only species used as "artificial pollinators" because they have colonies with prodigious amounts of workers - up to 20,000. However, it's just a single species - apis mellifera. In the area around my house, there are at least 22 native species of bumble bee. This kind of biodiversity makes an ecosystem more robust and less vulnerable to parasite or disease die-offs. I'd love to see more support for local pollinators!

Obligatory personal credential citation: worked on pollination biology projects for several years at my university. So... what was the major pollinating force pre-17th century? The Americas have a wide variety of pollinators - just not honeybees. Bumblebees and flies are two excellent examples, and they comprise most of the native pollinator population. I would also like to mention that native pollinators do not show the same devastating effects of CCD as honey bees. That and neonics are just as toxic across the board of honey bees and bumble bees.  I'm surprised by this because I recently read articles and reddit threads that presented pesticide use as the consensus. *Which is it, Science??* But seriously, is the reason that bees are dying known to be a combination of all of these, some of these, or is it still basically mysterious?  &gt; But seriously, is the reason that bees are dying known to be a combination of all of these, some of these, or is it still basically mysterious?

Well science primarily aims to give a reasonable explanation of something, and tries to avoid going with "100% positive explanation" because we keep learning new materials and methods that can be applied to current and past research which may result in a different answer, but the general public tend to assume and demand science to be clear cut so it's easier to understand.

This is why science uses null hypotheses, we set out to disprove something, as proving something is much harder as you often have too many variables in play to control the entire time and within replication.

This also crosses into nomenclature as the term "theory" can mean 2 different things when used in the term "theory of evolution.gravity", and "I have a theory why my car is on fire". The former is different from the latter despite the same word being used, as the latter is more often described as a hypothesis in the scientific community, but redundancy and evolution in etymology means you can often end up with the same word meaning different things, and sometimes the complete opposite in those definitions.

As Thefriendlyfaceplant mentioned it's not solely on neonics or other pesticides that are causing bee mortalities, it's a culmination of multiple factors increases susceptibility to some factors that are then taken advantages of by things like parasites, which may or may not vector diseases that then have much greater efficacy than previously observed because the infected hosts are not as fit as before. So the hosts suffer more, die easier, and the media jumps for the simple reason of "pesticides kill bees", rather than "neonics cause increased stress in honeybees which promotes increased mortality as a result of weakened immune systems failing to combat pathogens transmitted from known parasites". Media reports don't want lengthy titles, they want attention grabbing buzz words, and that can often mean inaccurate data being presented to the general public which then becomes an established factoid in a large number of people. Well put.

There's a different spin that can be put on "weakened immune systems failing to combat pathogens transmitted from known parasites" when you consider the bees, parasites and associated pathogens as an existing ecological system (a parasitic one, but still a system). The bees, mites and viruses had achieved some level of stability (mortality rate) prior to exposure to neonics. Overly aggressive parasite infestation/infection would result in the death of the hive - a negative feedback system in short-term evolution of the parasites/viruses. Neonic exposure greatly increases the efficacy of the viruses, increasing bee mortality. There is no negative feedback system regulating neonic exposure, and level of exposure is variable which prevents the system from finding a new stable configuration. If a bee colony dies (CCD), the mites and viruses go with them. Neonics kill the whole ecological system.

While it's true that areas without this parasitic system don't see neonic-CCD, eradicating the parasites from areas where they are already established isn't (to my knowledge) currently practical. This makes the bee+parasite system a reasonable assumption, and the "neonics are killing bees" conclusion reasonable, though over-simplified.  Indeed, while the focus is on the effects of neonics on bees, there are cross species effects, both direct and non-direct, that can cause multi-trophic cascades and wipe out multiple species that have historically existed in an equilibrium. You have read a lot of sensationalized articles from people with agendas. That includes a small group of "scientists". The most prominent one was the Harvard study by Lu. It was published in a 3rd rate [journal](http://www.researchgate.net/journal/1721-8861_Bulletin_of_Insectology), its impact factor is below 1, no one cites it for good reason. The Bulletin is published by an Italian University is only in English which is odd it itself.
The paper itself has been [discredited by everyone](http://scientificbeekeeping.com/the-harvard-study-on-neonicotinoids-and-ccd/) who read it for numerous scientific errors (like feeding bees an unrealistic amount of pesticide, then claiming it caused CCD 6 months later but having a different definition of CCD than everyone else) and a sample size too small to be scientifically valid. The press didn't report any of that. They just grabbed the mistaken conclusions written by the author with an agenda and published those as gospel. English is the international language of trade and science.  Even scientists who speak other languages natively are by far more likely to read English than Italian.  So to publish exclusively in English is the appropriate choice for an international journal.  That doesn't detract from you other criticisms, though. Fun fact: you look up old bee science(pre 1965) it's about half written in german, and a significant portion in french.  So if it's all english, now, that's a change over the course of the history of this field. The neonicotinoids don't kill the bees either, they make them vulnerable to the mite and other diseases. At the root it's still the pesticides, all the other vulnerabilities are mostly a consequence to the bee being weakened by neonicotinoids.  

Or to put it shortly, if neonicotinoids weren't part of this equation we'd be having healthy colonies experiencing the other strains as a nuisance but not an actual threat. Just to clarify (I may have misinterpreted). Did you just say that without pesticides Varroa Destructor and its associated diseases would not be a major problem to bee colonies?
 I'm not a scientist, but I'm a beekeeper and I'll chime in. 

Short answer, we're not entirely sure yet. I would guess Varroa would still be a huge issue, even if you took immune suppression out of the equation. Varroa has become more resistant to treatments in the last decade or so. Bees are highly susceptible to the viruses carried by Varroa. If their immune systems are compromised in any way (pesticides included), they can't fight off the viruses, leading to higher rates of hive deaths. I'm both so I'll chime back.

Look into the work by Professor Stephen Martin. He was pretty much at the coal face when varroa arrived in Hawaii (or at least very shortly afterwards).

Their measurements currently conclude that where colonies fail it's overwhelmingly where Varroa is involved.

Not necessarily that Varroa is directly killing the colonies but that it acts as a vector for other diseases. The more varroa the higher the chance of the colony dying. No other correlation with environmental affects e.g. pesticides used were found.

It's still ongoing research but there appears to be a level of hysteria with regards to neonicitinoids which risk clouding and obscuring the facts.

I'm not saying that neonicitinoids are not a problem but the level of research currently is at the 'if you drench bees with this chemical mix then they experience problems'. If you drench bees with anything they experience problems. The research needs to be more refined and mirror realistic conditions over time to provide a better answer. As a scientist but not a bee keeper, is there anything that can be done to the hive that will reduce the mite's ability to spread the disease but not hurt the bees? If there is, is it something that a 'backyard' beekeeper can do to help with the cause? 'Ask two beekeepers for an opinion and you'll get three replies'

Varroa is a fact and every hive has varroa. It's the levels that matter. It's about pest management not pest removal (this is true in the UK)

Mesh floor is shown to help, the mites fall off and can't get back in. Some beekeepers swear by regular dusting with icing sugar which they believe makes the mites be groomed off or slip off. chemical tratments such as oxalic acid. Currently MAQS strips is the new thing that actually has some science behind it.
Good husbandry and the hope that we'll be able to breed some resistance to the strains.
Regular mite drop counts and sensible treatments of colonies is my go to standard.

There's a lot of woo with beekeeping. They're mystical magical creatures with a sixth sense and innate link to nature, nasty man comes along with his evil chemicals and upsets the balance.

The best thing a backyard beekeeper could do is learn some science and research the subject. It's easy to blame neonics.
But look at Australia.  They have virtually no CCD and they are using neonics all over the place.
 Of course using appeal to emotion and fear tactics leads to knee-jerk precautionary reactions.  Legislators don't really care as long as they get the votes.  It's hard to fight emotion with science.
Source: I am a publisher in the agricultural industry and this is a huge issue for us.

edit: added source:  http://archive.apvma.gov.au/news_media/chemicals/bee_and_neonicotinoids.php
 Aren't they also Varroa mite free in Australia?  I thought the underlying argument is the insecticides are making the bees weaker to pests, and Varroa is a dangerous pest.

If a country doesn't have Varroa, then you could weakend bees without the corresponding collapse. Thanks for this. I work for a retail/wholesale greenhouse, and the neonic issue has been a PR nightmare. Regardless of the fact that we use neonics inside a greenhouse ... in the middle of winter, we're still a bunch of dirty bee murderers. Heck, because of USDA phytosanitary laws, we are required by law to treat with neonics to control the spread of various invasive insects like Japanese Beetles.  For us it is a matter of treating with these chemicals or telling 500 employees they don't have a job.

I'm working on a formal response to post on our website outlining the real science behind understanding CCD. We're also going to start a pollinator stewardship program. Our company is also helping fund research on neonics.  Do you have any resources I can use for my response? The neonic ban is in full swing in the UK at the moment. There are a number of beekeepers complaining about lost colonies because farmers are going back the old large scale spraying routines of the old pesticides. The ban is currently causing more harm than when the pesticides were allowed. My worry is that with the mild winter bee numbers will be up and everyone will say, look we banned the nasty chemical and in the first year alone the numbers shot up

The level of hyperbole with neonics at the moment is on a par with that of the anti-vax movement at the moment, in my opinion. I fear you'll have little choice but to weather it out :( A lot of people don't want to believe that it could be anything other than those nasty chemicals.

Resources - I'll have a think about that over the weekend and see what I can pull together. Take a look into anything regarding Stephen Martin and Varroa though, his team have been able to cover the most comprehensive research into this, I believe. Yes, exactly. I was just trying to speak "non-beekeeper"! (Also, my throwaway line is "I'm a beekeeper, not a scientist" when I'm working with researchers.)

I know how devastating it was when Varroa reached Hawaii.

&gt;Their measurements currently conclude that where colonies fail it's overwhelmingly where Varroa is involved. Not necessarily that Varroa is directly killing the colonies but that it acts as a vector for other diseases. The more varroa the higher the chance of the colony dying. 

I, for one, believe that somehow eliminating the viruses carried by Varroa (or the Varroa mite itself) is the key.

&gt;No other correlation with environmental affects e.g. pesticides used were found. It's still ongoing research but there appears to be a level of hysteria with regards to neonicitinoids which risk clouding and obscuring the facts.

I'm aware that there is nothing concrete at the moment (and that one "study" about neonics killing bees, omfg how did that even get published), but I've heard rumblings from some researchers that they are seeing suppressed immunity in colonies that were exposed to pesticides a few generations later. It's at such low levels that the immunity suppression itself wouldn't be an issue, but add in the viruses that Varroa carry and you've got colonies dying. There is no good data to show that neonicotinoids are responsible for susceptibility to Varroa. Why would you even make that claim?

AFAIK no major studies on the destructiveness of Varroa have found correlation between neonic use and colony collapse. Not true at all for varroa.  Bees in the states lack the same grooming tendencies that their Asian counterparts have. Mites originated there and are tolerated because their bee populations evolved hygienic behaviors to manage the mite population. No such evolution has taken place here so honeybees are defenseless. 

Varroa has absolutely nothing to do with pesticides.  &gt;Source: graduate of one of the top parasitology universities

Can we get you to verify this?

https://www.reddit.com/r/science/wiki/flair
 I think this is the best comment on here from my understanding ... maybe if you have time you could toss in a couple studies if you know of any offhand so that people can get real information? So, I read this article this week that I'm too lazy to look up again. Is it true that the US is having to replenish a die off of about 40% each year at this point, or something crazy like that? The study said 50%... its up from the 35%-40% that is expected every year due to cold weather and other causes.  Reading this comment on a mobile phone made me feel guilty I believe the study he referred to put a cell phone inside a hive and made it ring on a regular basis. If I did that in your house it would have an effect on you too. Cell phones and their signals in normal usage, even if the hive is right under a tower have no effects. Is this affecting bees in their native ranges? Or is it mostly limited to bees that have been introduced, like honeybees in North America? I think it is a combination of pesticides and stress weakening the bees and this making them more susceptible to parasitism and disease.  And that is why we have to medicate our bees for mites and such.

Source Beekeeper of 250 hives

Edit: spelling [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Just like when beetles wiped out tons of forests because the drought made the trees vulnerable to rot and with rot the trees were no longer able to produce as much sap to keep the beetles at bay.

I wonder if the reason the parasites are flourishing is because of the change in temperature/drought?  It's also migration of parasyte. Varroa wasn't so prolific around the world until recently. Many strains of honeybee haven't evolved fast enough to combat the speed the varroa mite is being spread.   Is part of the reason the narrow genetics within domestic bee populations? Will wild bees be as susceptible to the parasites/virus? Like /u/amethystrockstar said honey bees are not native to the U.S. Wild bee stocks in the U.S. are just as susceptible to varroa and the virus as managed ones. Tom Seeley (Cornell) did a study in one of his research forests and compared the hives and genetics from the 1970s to recently. Same number of hives but drastically lower genetic diversity. The varroa killed off a lot of the susceptible genetic lines (like 80-90% of the total lines if I remember) and its only the few survivors that repopulated.

The narrow genetics may be of some concern but its not the primary one. Europe which doesn't have the genetic bottleneck is seeing the same problems.  So I have a new question then. If honeybees are not native to the US, then wouldn't the ecosystem get along ok without them? Or have they been around too long that it would still be devastating? The natural ecosystem sure. That's not what we care about (well it is not not in relation to honey bees). We care about our crops, many of which are old world crops pollinated by old world honey bees. We also care about the volume of new world crops that honey bees can pollinate compared to new world bee species. Most new world species are solitary bees and don't have the numbers to pollinate the massive fields we grow. A honey bee colony can typically be 30,000 members half or more of whom are foragers. A bumble bee colony, some of the largest colonies native to N. America, might have a dozen foragers. The amount of work a single honey bee colony does compared to native bees is staggering.

We also care about the manageability. Solitary bees are hard to manage. They often pollinate a specific species of flower or a few species for only a short time period than vanish for the year. The require certain soil for digger bees, small tubes for others, or even old mouse nests. pollinating workers are only available during the spring breeding season. Honey bees are generalists and pollinate almost everything with nectar and do so year round when they can fly. I can take the same bee colonies to almonds (almonds are old world only pollinated by honey bees) in Feb, citrus in Florida shortly after, sunflowers or clover in the midwest, Watermelons back in north Florida. I can't really do that with native bees.  What I have always wondered when I read these articles is, Has the same thing been happening to bee hives in the wild or is it just the ones in the commercial operations? Read this on the wiki page for CCD:                
                   
***"Shortages of bees in the US have increased the cost to farmers renting them for pollination services by up to 20%"***               
                
                 
How does one rent a honeybee? Like how do you get them back to the people you rented them from? Do you just wander around and catch them? I don't get this. Please explain if you know.  The entire hive is relocated. That makes sense. Thanks! I just had this image of a guy renting a cage of bees from a store, going out into his field and setting them free. The bees do their job and he comes back some time later with a butterfly net and tries to catch them all.  This sounds like a side quest in a Zelda game. I'd like to imagine the store owner giving the guy a 4th bottle for bringing them back. Correct, I actually do this kind of work. its exhausting after awhile but well worth it. I get your precious nectar and you get the flowers pollinated. They drive them on trucks. That's how California almonds (among other crops) are pollinated. Bees can't live there all year because there wouldn't be food except during that pollination season. So they bring them in (feeding them sugar water along the way).

That's another problem. If hives are infected woth mites or other contagious parasites or illnesses, they literally drive across the country, possibly infecting other bee colonies along the way. I occasionally fly queen bees in my cargo plane in northeastern Washington. I'm not an expert since I'm just learning about beekeeping myself (I plan on setting up some hives next year maybe). 

I saw someone speak recently at a beekeeping workshop, who is a professional beekeeper for farms. He is contracted by farmers to build and maintain hives. Bee hives need periodic monitoring and maintenance for health, etc. Sure a farmer could do it themself (and many do), but this guy has more expertise and access to the equipment, can provide new queen bees and a colony starter, etc. 

As for how to find them..  a hive needs exactly one queen, a supply of drones, and workers. For someone starting a hive, I believe they typically buy a "bee package" which includes a queen, some drones, and workers. I think the whole thing usually costs around $100. (Queens can be bought separately to resupply a hive with a dead queen). That's attached onto the stack of hives, where they'll make a home. In some cases if there's a wild hive (like in a porch or tree), they can be transplanted to a stack of hive boxes. 

It's interesting to note that bees will travel in something like a 3 mile radius from its hive to collect pollen. 

There, that's my broken knowledge on the subject. Hopefuly an expert can come along and correct me. Renter is renting the services of both the bees and the beekeeper. The beekeeper provides hives of a certain strength, in number of frames covered in bees, puts the hives on the property for the time allotted, does all the maintenance work and removes them. The renter agrees not to interfere with the hives directly and not to spray the crop with insecticide while the bees are busy pollinating.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] So where does this fit into the slew of potential causes of CCD? I wrote a paper in school on neonicotinoids and in the process of doing research realized just how many different root causes have been implicated. Does this research mean that this parasite is most likely the cause? Every bee conference I have been to in the last 3 years says repeatedly over and over there is not a single smoking gun for the problem. It is a complicated issue involving pesticides (and possibly not direct usage but build up over time), mixed chemicals (like two pesticides being more harmful when mixed together than either is alone), non-monitored chemicals (like fungicide that doesn't hurt adult bees which are tested but kills larva which we don't test it on), nutrition, varroa, nosema, virus, and stress.  All are a factor. Fixing one won't fix anything, fixing 4 might not either since almost every situation is different. This hive might have died from varroa/virus/stress that one from long term pesticide exposure and bad nutrition and have similar symptoms. This is very worrisome. We have a real dependence on bees.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] we do but it won't kill us off. So in a nutshell...what are the potential negative effects for humanity? I've skimmed the 500+ comments and haven't seen any reference to the practices favored, regarding bees, by industrialized agriculture. Specifically, herding bees into larger colonies than would be found in nature and breeding bees for desirable traits, such as docility.

I have not studied this subject, but I'm interested b/c I live in a rural state and I encourage bees in my own gardens. 

The problem with both of the issues I mentioned above is that these practices seem to make a larger percentage of bee populations susceptible to threats. One, because there's simply more of them in one place - if anything, pesticide, pest, disease - has the capacity to harm bees, it'll attack the bees more efficiently if all the bees are close to one another.

Two, if the bees have little genetic diversity, a disease which they may be susceptible to will kill or disable a higher percentage of bees than if their genetic population was more diverse.

Someone pointed out the relative health of bees in Australia, despite heavy use of niconids. Australian farms are smaller than U.S. farms (source: http://www.farminstitute.org.au/_blog/Ag_Forum/post/us-farms-more-diverse-and-more-reliant-on-government-support-than-australian-farms/ ). Australians place high cultural value on family farms. They also place high value on locally grown food, which makes small farming more viable. I'm making the assumption that a small farm can use wild bees or keep a few hives themselves for their pollination needs.

Again, not a scientist. I'm basing some of my thinking on the documentary *More Than Honey* (2012) by Markus Imhoof. I'd highly recommend it to any lay person interested in the subject. (I suspect it'd be too elementary for someone who'd studied in this area.) NY Times review: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/12/movies/more-than-honey-a-documentary-by-markus-imhoof.html?_r=0. In turn, the filmmakers relied on the research of a Rudolph Menzel, who studies in this field (http://www.neurobiologie.fu-berlin.de/menzel/menzel.html )

 Article regarding how many bees are trucked around the country: http://westernfarmpress.com/blog/honey-bees-rent-demand-will-only-grow

Scientific American article on bee renting: http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/migratory-beekeeping-mind-boggling-math/

News article about the overturning of a semi-trailer carrying bees. The trailer (just one!) was carrying nearly 14 **million** bees. http://www.businessinsider.com/tractor-trailer-carrying-millions-of-honeybees-overturns-seattle-2015-4

TLDR: maybe decreasing the size of farms and letting wild bees or small-farm beekeepers re-take the job of pollinating would not be a bad idea. [deleted] [This study](http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/news/press-releases/study-strengthens-link-between-neonicotinoids-and-collapse-of-honey-bee-colonies/), and at least three others have showed that reduced resistance to mites and parasites is directly tied to exposure to neonicotinoids. The linked article mentions this nowhere. It seems blatantly clear that there's a direct link between CCD and pesticides, I just don't understand why we keep fixating on smaller symptomatic problems.

Edit: forgot to actually link study at first. You have to be careful with this study, it's drawn quite a bit of criticism.  In a nutshell,  Lu failed to disclose his connection to an antipesticide organization in the study.  Which is bad, but not a deal breaker.  Where he really screwed up was his dosage.  At normal,  expected levels of exposure there weren't any real indications of loss, so he kept upping the dosage.  He finally got the results he wanted when he was straight spraying bees with pesticide.  At that level, any pesticide would be harmful,  heck anything other than a light misting of sugar water can be harmful.  I work in the lab at UCSD that did this research and personally know the researchers as well. Let me clarify what the actual paper states, because I feel the article written is misleading. 

Nosema ceranae has been around the 1990s and is a mutant of Nosema apis, which previously only affected European honey bees. It is already well documented that N. ceranae leads to colony collapse. Previously, it was believed that the parasite only affected adult bees because no brood was found to have Nosema. What Endler found was that Nosema does affect brood, but the workers are able to detect and kill off the sick young. 

On a side note, we are currently working to see if there is a way to induce resistance in honey bees against Nosema infections. 

Let me know if you guys have any questions.

tldr: Article is misleading. Nosema always affected colony collapse. Research article found Nosema affected brood.  [deleted] [deleted] So its not pesticides anymore? It's a mixture of everything, really.

The old-school pesticides, that you'd just kind of spray on plants that would kill any insects on it, then get washed away by the rain - those were fine. All they really did was kill bees that may be around on contact, but they're largely unaffected.

The problem pesticides are the systemic ones. These are pesticides that are applied as a coating on the seed and become an integral part of the plant. They will kill all insects, but they've been specially formulated to not harm bees. However, the research into their effects on bees was very minimal - they only looked at the immediate effect. Turned out that the bees survived initially getting the nectar and pollen from these plants, but after storing it then digging it up later to eat - especially to feed their young, that's when shit went down and you ended up getting things like Colony Collapse Disorder happening.

There are other risks such as the Foul Brood Diseases etc. too

The Varroa Mites can be thought of as what mosquitos are to us. They can transmit all sorts of diseases inbetween hives and they live off of bees. They're relatively larger - so they end up really draining the bees. Almost every hive will have Varroa Mites in it. There are a few schools of thought as to how we deal with Varroa

* **Treat Hives for Varroa Mites**: Now, even in this category there's even more schools of thought. Some people go all-organic, others go with chemicals. What all believe, though, is to circulate the treatments and to never use the same one twice in a row - since that'll end up creating more resistant mites
* **Leave Hives to Die**: There are some people who think that it's best to let some hives fail and that that's just a part of nature that we shouldn't really be too heavy-handed in. If we keep treating for Varroa, then we're breeding bees that are susceptible to dying from Varroa that rely on us treating them.
* **Breed for Resistance**: There are some bees that are better at grooming themselves than others. There's a whole bunch of queen breeders who are breeding for Varroa resistance. These can be costly though. I know that Asian Honey Bees are a lot more resistant to Varroa since they've been exposed to them for a longer time and have had time to adapt grooming behaviours in their genetics, but they also produce less honey. 

Ok, I'm going to stop talking about bees now. These pesticides that become part of the plant....why is it supposed to be safe for us to eat them? It's pesticides when we want to ban pesticides, otherwise there are better explanations. [Here's the direct link to the related publication](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0126330)

Eiri DM, Suwannapong G, Endler M, Nieh JC (2015) *Nosema ceranae* Can Infect Honey Bee Larvae and Reduces Subsequent Adult Longevity. PLoS ONE 10(5): e0126330. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0126330

*Abstract:*
&gt; Nosema ceranae causes a widespread disease that reduces honey bee health but is only thought to infect adult honey bees, not larvae, a critical life stage. We reared honey bee (Apis mellifera) larvae in vitro and provide the first demonstration that N. ceranae can infect larvae and decrease subsequent adult longevity. We exposed three-day-old larvae to a single dose of 40,000 (40K), 10,000 (10K), zero (control), or 40K autoclaved (control) N. ceranae spores in larval food. Spores developed intracellularly in midgut cells at the pre-pupal stage (8 days after egg hatching) of 41% of bees exposed as larvae. We counted the number of N. ceranae spores in dissected bee midguts of pre-pupae and, in a separate group, upon adult death. Pre-pupae exposed to the 10K or 40K spore treatments as larvae had significantly elevated spore counts as compared to controls. Adults exposed as larvae had significantly elevated spore counts as compared to controls. Larval spore exposure decreased longevity: a 40K treatment decreased the age by which 75% of adult bees died by 28%. Unexpectedly, the low dose (10K) led to significantly greater infection (1.3 fold more spores and 1.5 fold more infected bees) than the high dose (40K) upon adult death. Differential immune activation may be involved if the higher dose triggered a stronger larval immune response that resulted in fewer adult spores but imposed a cost, reducing lifespan. The impact of N. ceranae on honey bee larval development and the larvae of naturally infected colonies therefore deserve further study.

 [deleted] When any organism is weakened by toxins in their environment, of COURSE they can  more easily fall pray to parasites and diseases.

This is a symptom of the massive use of pesticides used. Has someone forgotten about the fact that bees used to be able to fight off these parasites and maintain health colonies despite their presence? 

Ahem:

 Neonicotinoid - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neonicotinoid
Wikipedia
Neonicotinoids are a class of neuro-active insecticides chemically similar to nicotine. In the 1980s Shell and in the 1990s Bayer started work on their development. The neonicotinoid family includes acetamiprid, clothianidin, imidacloprid, nitenpyram, nithiazine, thiacloprid and thiamethoxam.

Decline in bee population

A dramatic rise in the number of annual beehive losses noticed around 2006 spurred interest in factors potentially affecting bee health.[50][51] When first introduced, neonicotinoids were thought to have low-toxicity to many insects, but recent research has suggested a potential toxicity to honey bees and other beneficial insects even with low levels of contact. Neonicotinoids may impact bees ability to forage, learn and remember navigation routes to and from food sources.[52] Separate from lethal and sublethal effects solely due to neonicotinoid exposure, neonicotinoids are also being explored with a combination with other factors, such as mites and pathogens, as potential causes of colony collapse disorder.[53] Neonicotinoids may be responsible for detrimental effects on bumble bee colony growth and queen production.[54]

Previously undetected routes of exposure for bees include particulate matter or dust, pollen and nectar[55] Bees can fail to return to the hive without immediate lethality due to sub-nanogram toxicity,[56] one primary symptom of colony collapse disorder.[57] Separate research showed environmental persistence in agricultural irrigation channels and soil.[58]

A 2012 study showed the presence of thiamethoxam and clothianidin in bees found dead in and around hives situated near agricultural fields. Other bees at the hives exhibited tremors, uncoordinated movement and convulsions, all signs of insecticide poisoning. The insecticides were also consistently found at low levels in soil up to two years after treated seed was planted and on nearby dandelion flowers and in corn pollen gathered by the bees. Insecticide-treated seeds are covered with a sticky substance to control its release into the environment, however they are then coated with talc to facilitate machine planting. This talc may be released into the environment in large amounts. The study found that the exhausted talc showed up to about 700,000 times the lethal insecticide dose for a bee. Exhausted talc containing the insecticides is concentrated enough that even small amounts on flowering plants can kill foragers or be transported to the hive in contaminated pollen. Tests also showed that the corn pollen that bees were bringing back to hives tested positive for neonicotinoids at levels roughly below 100 parts per billion, an amount not acutely toxic, but enough to kill bees if sufficient amounts are consumed.[59]

A 2013 review concluded that neonicotinoids as they are typically used harm bees and that safer alternatives are urgently needed.[60] An October 2013 study by Italian researchers demonstrated that neonicotinoids disrupt bees' immune systems, making them susceptible to viral infections to which the bees are normally resistant.[61][62]

In April 2015 EASAC conducted a study of the potential effects on organisms providing a range of ecosystem services like pollination and natural pest control which are critical to sustainable agriculture.[63] The resulting report concludes "there is an increasing body of evidence that the widespread prophylactic use of neonicotinoids has severe negative effects on non-target organisms that provide ecosystem services including pollination and natural pest control."[64]
 Isn't it the case that in the country where varroa desctructor comes from the local bee Apis Cerana has resistance.
It's where varroa has spread to countries where it isn't native that the bees (apis mellifera) are experiencing issues.
This is a common theme where species travel out of their natural geographical location.

This isn't a case of bees now being weak being caused by an external chemical influence it's a case of the bees experiencing a new parasite.
 Exactly. Varroa was introduced into the U.S. in 1987. *Apis Cerana* isn't local however its the Asian honey bee. This is true.  Varroa are non native to the states. Came over in the eighties I believe. A wiki article "about neonics" that suddenly expounds on CCD is not a wiki article about neonics.  It's about "neonics cause CCD" and needs to be flagged as such.  Better yet, don't use wiki as a source. Its a multi-pronged problem, Apis Mellifera evolved in Europe and Africa regions where there were no Varroa mites to infest them and cause large scale die offs. 20th century apiculture practices allowed for a spread of the varroa mite from Asia to Europe and North America, bees do have a natural reaction to cull the infected larvae from a hive but this is a behavior that is not expressed in all genetic lines to the same degree. In addition a hive weakened by weather(which is why winter is the die off season) and other environmental factors, has less of a tendency to fight off the parasite. Wow I never knew the evidence suggesting the insecticides were causing CCD was so shoddy. I always thought it was pretty much proven. But seems like the case that the cause is a parasite has much stronger supporting evidence. When did the focus on this causation method (Colony Collapse) shift from pesticides to parasites?

Honestly curious. Various studies have indicated various culprits, so it's not really a shift, it's just that this article emphasizes one of the possible causes. Other studies have considered the possibility of a synergism between multiple causes, like maybe neonicotinoids make it harder for bees to fight parasites, etc. I've done a lot of beekeeping with my grandparents (they own a lot of hives) and we believe it is caused from all the pesticides. While all the other things don't help (mites, etc) We feel it is the use of pesticides that has had such a dramatic impact on honey bees. The monarch butterfly has taken a huge hit from pesticides as well (hundreds of millions dead) they are a great pollinator as well that is being wiped out. Is everything going wrong these days? Bad food. Too many pesticides. Global warming. Politics owned by the rich. Bees dying. 

Maybe I'm reading too much reddit  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] The comments to this are ridiculous.

While there are tentative studies attempting to determine a link between CCD and this parasite, Nocema ceranae, this paper intentionally does not mention CCD *at all* because they are reporting on a separate issue, the ability for N. ceranae to affect larvae which decreases subsequent adult honey bee lifespans.

Whether or not CCD is linked to N. ceranae is only tangentially relevant to the paper.
 Time for the War on Parasites.  Sorry,  haven't we been told for the last 5 years that climate change was the cause of decline? I didn't see that mentioned in the list.  Please keep in mind that bee populations rebound extremely quickly. 

It's not like losing 40% of the elephants where it takes many decades to return to the previous population. Given the typical life cycle of a bee, we could increase bee populations by an order of magnitude each season if we were so inclined. 

That's not to say that the loss of bees is a good thing or that it's harmless but it's also not as disastrous as it sounds.  [deleted] Is this how they camouflage themselves? That'd have to be aware of the area around themselves to change their shade correctly. It would also explain how a colorblind creature could do such a thing, maybe the brain is not involved in the process. A video I saw recently said that the octupus brain basically says "move" and the tentacles will feel their way around for a way to move forward independantly, it makes sense that the same would be true for comoflage.  The octopus is really a system of nine brains. Each tentacle is its own brain and each if those brains is connected together by the brain in the center. As far as I know saying they have nine brains isn't really correct. You could argue there are kind of 3 brains: a central brain with 40 lobes, then two optic lobes outside of the brain capsule, and finally the arm nervous system which coordinates arm movement and is also outside the brain capsule (Hochner et al., 2006).

[Hochner, B., Shomrat, T., &amp; Fiorito, G. (2006). The Octopus: A model for a Comparative Analysis of the Evolution of Learning and Memory Mechanisms. *Biological Bulletin, 210*(3), 308-317. doi: 10.2307/4134567](http://www.biolbull.org/content/210/3/308.long#sec-3) The nervous systems inside their arms are as dense as brain tissue though and they have many many more nuerons outside their head than inside.  Yes. The optic lobes and arm nervous system are outside of the brain which is why they could be considered separate brains. 2/3rds of their neurons are located in the arm nervous system alone. Oh I see what your saying now but consider this. The arm if detached will continue functioning perfectly on its own until it starves to death. It diesnt even notice its lost its body it just keeos swimming, catching prey, and trying to shove food where it thinks its mouth is. It wouldnt beable to do this if it wasnt its own localized brain... but then again you could say the same thing about the left and right hemispheres in the human brain. Do you have any sources that what you describe is what happens when you sever a tentacle? The study I'm familiar with just shows that the tentacle will respond to unpleasant stimuli such as being pinched to and increase is water acidity by trying to escape that stimuli. http://io9.com/5858783/the-growing-evidence-for-octopus-intelligence


Has the closest thing i cant find to what i was talking about. Having hunted octopus, if you destroy the brain case, the animal stops moving. Not really quickly, but all coordination is gone almost instantly. When you destroy the brain case (usually by biting it), first, the head goes white, and the tentacles will keep wiggling, but much slower. After maybe a minute, the tentacles stop moving, but will continue gripping things if the last thing they were told to do was to hang on. If the animal was trying to flee, then they will either hang limp and kind of wave or curl up. This, too, will stop after maybe 20 minutes usually. 

The last to stop moving is the circulatory system, which you can see through the skin as a rapidly changing light/dark pattern. This can go on for maybe 6 hours or more.  

I've seen nothing that suggests any part of the animal will keep functioning until it starves. It's not a wasp.  [deleted] Tell me about wasps please. This makes me think about the human digestive system, it is much like our second brain right? It's called that because it's capable of independent function, but it is important to keep in mind that it's much, much less complex. It's more like an elaborate set of reflexes than any sort of decision making capacity. The reproductive system must be the 3rd brain then.   I read somewhere that the vast majority of serotonin (a neurotransmitter) is in the digestive tract. Well it is actually dubbed the "second brain". A video of this would be such creepy fun to watch.   &gt;  are as dense as brain tissue

Are they analogous to a spinal cord in vertebrates? Vertebrate spinal cords do indeed do some amount of computation, but I believe these perform more processing than a spinal cord I just read the post saying that the severed tentacles still seek to eat and digest prey. Same comment family. Also incredible. They've found a spot in the cat spinal cord you can electrically stimulate and the cat will walk, so the spinal cord does do a fair amount of computation. (It might actually be the brain stem, but is certainly not brain.)

I don't think they've found a similar spot in primates yet Seems as though they would be exceptionally prone to feel pain I wonder if their apparent intelligence is an emergent property of the complexity of their anatomy.  I wonder the same thing about humans. Real talk: why aren't we reverse-engineering octopus brains to make better computers? Because we are at that stage with roundworms.  So very far from octopus that its not even worth talking about. [deleted] Nice refrencing Kinda like how we have two? Well technically we have three. Brain, spine, gut. But yes just at a higher level of complexity. What's the function of the gut brain?  Still being determined I think, given its popularity is only recent. What I've heard so far is; appetite and eating habits, and interestingly, mental health is tied to gut flora and so, possibly, the gut itself. [Per Scholarpedia](http://www.scholarpedia.org/article/Enteric_nervous_system), it manages gut motility (i.e. how much and how often your intestines churn or move stuff along), fluid exchange rates across the intestinal wall, and defences (diarrhea and possibly vomiting are part of its purview). There's a lot of cross-communication between it and the regular brain, as well.  I have heard of the brain and gut, but never spine. Could you explain please. Spinal cord can react on its own. It's used for reflexes and such. The central nervous system consists out of the brain and the spinal cord. Your brain is not involved in a lot of processes in the spinal cord. For example, a pain reflex is handled before your brain even registers the pain. Pfffft. *Thanks spine* Maybe you can answer this. If pain is registered before it reaches the brain, how do I overcome my reflex to retract from pain if I want to carry a hot pan? [deleted] Preparation. You are consciously overriding reflex at that point. Your reflex will still trigger, and you might not fully suppress it (flinch). To piggyback off the other comments, ever notice how it's nearly impossible to intentionally harm yourself? (Given you have sound mental health)

Say you try to stick your hand in a fire, if you want to hold your hand in the fire you're basically fighting your spine's reflex to withdraw, which happens automatically and does so faster than your brain does. Given that 99.9% percent of the time if your hand ends up in a fire you want it out ASAP it works perfectly because the signal from your hand only needs to travel to the spine before it gets a signal back to withdraw the hand. It's also why you reflexively withdraw your hand the exact same way every time, it doesn't have the capability to interpret the situation beyond "pain &gt; withdraw" so you always jerk your hand inwards towards your chest.

The spine isn't a brain in the way we generally think of one, it functions on a very basic level akin to lower level animals, it simply has a cause&gt;effect to stimuli, it doesn't interpret. Reminds me of when you poke snails' antenna things and they shrivel up.  I think if someone poked me in the eyes I'd shrivel up too. Most of the sensory input from the lower body is proccessed in a larger than normal nerve cluster near the base of the spine and then transmitted already proccessed to the brain. This is done to save time and effort. This nerve cluster also plays a part in running the parts of the lower body. most four limbed vertabrates have this actually and it get alot more pronounced the bigger you get. The dinosaurs had ones so big they were the size of their brains proper. So this is why the claims that dinosaurs had their brains in their tails ? Yes. they were so massive that they needed a brain in their pelvis to opperate the body properly. His def. of brain is probably really loose. Clusters of neutrons. Clusters of neutrons is indeed a loose definition of "brain". I'd say a cluster of neutrons with some protons and electrons could be a loose definition of an "atom", but what do I know. Yes, neutrons.. Clusters of free neutrons?  Sounds dangerous! ;) Clusters of morons are more dangerous. I think you meant neurons. ;) You mean neurons, but both are technically correct.. And penis. Defiantly has it's own brain.

Like when your doing something monotonous and suddenly you get this raging erection. Like, mr. penis, tell me what is so sexy about calculus? If you have to ask, you are doing it wrong. Technically our brain is two brains. Three really since the cerebellum is separate from the two hemispheres. So that makes 5 brains in total.  Just because our brain is divided into hemispheres doesn't mean each hemisphere is a separate "brain".  Our spinal cord is not a brain, and our gut is certainly not a brain.  There's also no brain between our legs, for that matter.  

They may be components of our nervous system, but to call them each "brains" isn't the right term.  They each work independently. If we're going to call dinosaurs' tail neuronal cluster and octopus' tentacle neuronal clusters "brains" then we can delineate human neuronal centers similarly. 

It's all semantics though, of course.  Ehh... If we want to arbitrarily separate by functions like that, we have quite a few. Like our motor cortex says "step", another place plans how, another place smooths movements, another aligns eyes to perceive a steady field even as we move, etc. 

We have one brain. 

We have many nervous areas. Most of them just layered on top of an older layer when they evolved. You could probably convince someone of 10:

- Cortex 
- Basal Ganglua
- Thalamus
- Midbrain
- Pons 
- Cerebellum
- Medulla
- Spinal cord
- Various peripheral ganglia
- Gutbrain

But, I mean, it's arbitrary.  Please can I have more depth? Just in general, a little more detail We have explored neuroanatomy for a long time, and the one of the most consistent findings is that anatomically distinct structures are also often separated by function and by evolution as well. I'm not discounting neuroplasticity or the change our brains can go through, it's fantastic, but simply pointing out the trend.

In general, we have layers. Take a peek at [this brain cut in half](http://41.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lxvgrnk8ff1qzcf71o1_1280.jpg). The forehead is on the left in this picture.

- Cortex is all the ["lobes"](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d8/Cerebrum_lobes.svg/1280px-Cerebrum_lobes.svg.png?1432241015712) of the brain. It's containing most of what we would call higher functions. The back is for vision, sides are for auditory, top is for sensation and motor, and front is for cognition / social function. That's a massive over simplification and I feel dirty. Regardless, this layer on top is the most recent adaptation we have managed. Other mammals have this as well. Our very developed frontal lobe, for all those executive things like personality and social function, seems to be the main thing distinguishing great apes (including us) from other mammals.
- [Basal Ganglia](http://kin450-neurophysiology.wikispaces.com/file/view/basalganglia.GIF/393453936/basalganglia.GIF) is a bit trickier to see on that half brain picture intuitively because it is a deeper near midline structure. The basal ganglia mostly work with motor function. They add constant small feedback and adjustments to the motor instructions the cortex sends downwards. There's also roles in the memory and emotion played.
- Thalamus is the egg in the middle. It's basically a massive filter and processor of things going both up and down. 
- Midbrain is the top part of the [brainstem](http://mybrainnotes.com/brain-stem-structures.jpg). It's involved in motor function, motivation and habituation, as well as relaying visual and auditory information. We're getting further down here, and as we do we get more evolutionarily 'archaic'. The midbrain (aka mesencephalon if you want to look it up) resembles the [older structures](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Archipallium), like ancient vertebrates.
- Pons is the second part of the brainstem. It's largely a relay between the expanding cortex and cerebellum, giving it important in coordination, hearing, and other functions. It also plays roles in wakefulness, sleep and dreaming. The pons first evolved as an offshoot from the medulla.
- The medulla is quite ancient, and the bottom part of the brainstem. It covers base functions for us, such as heart rate, respiratory drive, vomiting, blood pressure management and other involuntary functions. As an example, [lampreys](http://animalia-life.com/data_images/lamprey/lamprey1.jpg) have a fully developed medulla to manage bodily functions. It's suggested to have evolved in early fish, 500 million years ago, and is disproportionately large in reptilian brains to this day. 
- Spinal cord - you know what this is, but perhaps not that it is more than merely a pathway. The spinal cord conducts all sorts of fantastic reflexes, including but not limited to that hammer tap on the knee. We have processing happening, and lots of basic perceptions - pain causing retraction of a hand doesn't bother to take the time your brain needs to process it. Spinal cord gets it done!
- Gutbrain is interesting. There are a plexus of nerves throughout the intestinal tract keeping things regulated. We've got to manage digestion, protection, and absorption as efficiently as possible. This is an ancient thing; all animals eat.

Is that sort of answering a more elaborated description? Yes, no problem at all. I'll be home in an hour and give a more in depth explanation then :). [deleted] So kinda like our intestines which are described as a "second brain"? In which case it might not be exactly like a brain. The octopus actually has neurons in their tentacles [citation needed], suggesting that you might be correct. having neurons in the tentacles isn't that amazing - you have nerves in all of your arms and legs (if you're healthy, internet stranger). The cool bit is that they seem to have whole sections of motor control planning and execution circuits distributed to the tentacles and away from their central nervous systems. Oh, I didn't know nerves and neurons are the same thing. They are not exactly the same. Neurons are the cells that transport the signals while a nerve is a bundle of these cells that go in the same direction. Imagine it like a cable (nerve) that has several wires (axons of the neurons). We think too many animals that act as if they can see color are colorblind. 

It's true, we haven't found evidence of color vision in many animals, but perhaps that speaks more to our own understanding of color vision in different types of eyes than it does the animals perception. "colorblind"? I've only heard they have good vision, among the best-developed in the animal kingdom... They change with emotion (like fear), so it's likely at least partially involved.  Emotions can release messenger chemicals into circulation, so it doesn't mean there's a direct (axonal) connection between the brain and these cells. Have you seen how fast they can change their entire body colour? I doubt that's a chemical process, it has to be electrical to maintain such fast whole body colour changing. 

Don't octopi have some of the biggest axons of any animal to make up in speed for the fact that they don't have myelin sheaths. Perhaps to facilitate this fast pattern formation. This seems like it would make sense, wonder if you could further test by hiding the full field of view from the octopus and see if those appendages in a different color environment camouflage the same as the rest of the body or the local color.

Does a blind octopus camouflage? &gt; Evolutionary biologists Desmond Ramirez and Todd Oakley of the University of California, Santa Barbara therefore **removed patches of skin** from 11 hatchling and adult bimac octopuses (Octopus bimaculoides), mounted them onto Petri dishes with insect pins, and used light emitting diodes to shine light of different wavelengths onto the skin preparations. They noticed that the **chromatophores expanded quickly, and remained expanded, pulsating rhythmically, when exposed to continuous bright white light**. By contrast, red light caused slow, rhythmic muscle contractions, but not chromatophore expansion. 

Doesn't this paragraph suggest that it's at least partially an autonomous response to light wave stimulus? I wonder of we could "draw" on an octopus with a laser pointer Some scientists are already working on the ethics committee's permission to find out. run, octopi!!!!! I predict some very cool octopus-inspired camouflage technology coming soon. I think they have to be aware of how they look from another's perspective.  I think they build a mental model and reproduce it.  They can lay flat on the ground and still match perfectly the ground around them, even when when parts of their body really aren't being hit with the light of the surface that is basically on the same plane as they are in.
 &gt; Although these changes primarily rely on eyesight, we found that light causes chromatophores to expand in excised pieces of Octopus bimaculoides skin.

Ugh, I hate the way the article used the word "suggesting" in the title. The quote above (taken from the abstract) is a much stronger reason for causation than the one suggested by the title. Just containing the pigment doesn't suggest it can see with it. Exactly! We all have some carotene in our skin but that doesn't suggest we can "see" with our skin. So it's kind of like when I can "taste" the spiciness of my poo? No, "spicy" isn't a true flavor, it's more or less just a chemical reaction between chemicals in the food and your skin membranes. Normally just your mouth, it can be noticeable elsewhere on the body (unlike other flavors) and is especially noticeable in places where those membranes are more sensitive (mouth, eyes, anus, genitals) Yes. We even have opsins in our brain and many other places where light never shines. [deleted] Came here to find someone smart complaining about how The Guardian is handling this topic and was not disappointed! Still, responding to light and "seeing" are substantially different. I would put this closer to plants growing toward sunlight (in terms of resolution and hence ability to respond, though admittedly much faster) than sight. That's a bit more intellectual than my complaint about the headline.  I don't understand how this feature makes the Octopus "clever". Paper: http://jeb.biologists.org/content/218/10/1513.abstract You or someone else can re-share this story with /r/octopus if ya like. I'd love to be able to keep an octopus in my home but there's just no way for me to provide it the interaction and mental exercise it needs so I'll have to continue to admire them from a distance. 

They're just so amazing.  Plus you could put an octopus in fish alcatraz and it'd be free in 5 minutes. Anything they can fit their beak through, they can fit through.  True, if you want an octopus you have to have a completely sealed tank. If it's in any standard fish tank, you'll find it dead and dried up on the floor somewhere. That's because octopuses in general are one of the smartest documented sea animals.  Not as smart as dolphins or whales, but way more intelligent than just about everything else down there.   Is there anything written that actually compares dolphin intelligence to octopi?

I'd be interested to know why dolphins and whales are considered more intelligent. I'm no scientist, but I hang out in the ocean a lot and hunt octopus often. Their intelligence is unlike anything else I've ever seen anywhere, above or below water. However, I would not actually call them "smart", more "clever". They're very good at altering their environment and making use of things they find, but they have zero social intelligence. Mating is fatal for both parties and before mating, they live alone. Beyond trying to find food and shelter, they don't appear to be curious or ever "play". If they're not hungry and have a good place to hide, then they will just lay in their hole motionless and stare out. As they get hungrier, the start coming out and will perch and watch. 

They remind me of a very capable computer that only has very basic programs installed. When it has a task, it goes about it very well, but it doesn't really seem to come up with its own tasks or have any really complex goals. 

There's also absolutely no evidence of any semblance of culture that I've ever seen.  &gt; Mating is fatal for both parties 

Why? Good grief. In the case of the female, she tends her eggs for weeks, leading to her death from malnutrition. &gt;In the case of the female, she tends her eggs for weeks, leading to her death from malnutrition.

Some female octopi have been documented as [guarding their eggs for as much as 4.5 years](http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/mother-octopus-sets-longest-egg-tending-record-more-than-4-years-on-baby-watch/). Why does the male die?  snu snu He tears his penis-arm off and tosses it to the female. As someone else said, the female stops feeding and tends its eggs until it starves to death. The male doesn't even live this long. They seem to completely lose all sense of self-preservation and just sit out on top of the reef and reflect on how awesome the sex was until something eats them. If nothing eats them, then they will still die. I don't really know why.  Lying in a hole when no food needed sounds like an optimal solution to the problem of staying alive and more intelligent than cavhorting around playing. Yet almost all intelligent creatures play... The vertebrates do, at any rate. I would imagine octopus intelligence is a little too alien from our own way of seeing the world to really understand how intelligent they may or may not be, all we can do is give them puzzles to solve, and they're really good at that. It's definitely unlike anything else I've been around.  ...because most intelligent creatures are land mammals not living in basically a huge bathtub full of razorblades on fins. 


Sorry, I'm not a marine biologist or anything, it just seems like the ocean is a far more brutal and less forgiving environment than land.  Having spent a lot of time in the ocean, I don't really think that's true. Sure, there's a lot of eating each other, but not really much more than on land, and food is readily available in most places. It's not that bad. Helps to be high on the food chain.  Thanks, that's very interesting. The more I read about octopi the more fascinating they seem to be. Very weird creatures. Delicious, but weird. &gt; Beyond trying to find food and shelter, they don't appear to be curious or ever "play".

There have been documented playful octopus in aquarium. Otto, an octopus at the Sea Star Aquarium in Coburg would juggle the hermit crabs in his tank, rearrange said tank to better feng shui, throw stones agains the glass, steal scrubber (and attempt to clean his tank himself) and shoot water at his tank's spotlight (shorting it out, and the aquarium's electrical system along with it) because he was bored from the lack of visitors during the offseason.

http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=96476905 By far my favorite animal  Not necessarily true. The Monterey Bay Aquarium had one climb out of a tank, hop in another tank, and start eating the fishies. They only found out about it because one of the night watchmen saw it on the floor.

Octopus do explore, but if they can get back into a tank they will. Get to the sea or die drying. Octopus are how I picture aliens to be. You want an Octopus? In your house?

Guys? I found the Bond villain.  Without a lens system, it's hard to call this "seeing". They can react to light like a reflex, but it's not really "seeing" if it doesn't report colors to the brain, and can't create any kind of image from it. &gt;They can react to light like a reflex

That's literally one of the definitions of "seeing" which is "to visually discern".
 I wouldn't call it see, more like feeling the light. How about sensing the signal of light?   I agree with this one more. I could technically say I feel the light from the sun on my skin.. but I cant feel an LED light, I would have to have another sense to "sense" it.  This has been known for a while. Octopuses are my unofficial specialty, so if anyone has questions feel free to ask me. 

Also I'm just going to leave this here... [A mind-blowing video of just how cool octopus camoflauge can be! (only 28 sec)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ckP8msIgMYE) How much does their seeing-with-skin ability help them perform amazing camouflage? Quite a bit! 

As the article mentions, they can change their skin color by expanding and contracting sacs of pigment called chromatophores [(cool video here)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G-OVrI9x8Zs), and can change their skin texture by doing the same with papillae [(cool video here)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UWxr8oIkOdU). Octopus brains aren't solely located in the mantle; the nerves that extend into each arm are basically akin to brains of their own. So instead of the main brain controlling every action of every arm muscle, it only has to send a simple command to the arm to move, and the arm can process that command and do the rest of the work on its own. Super cool stuff. Because the arms are fairly autonomous, the octopus' ability to register and respond to light variations is extremely fast. They're (mind-blowingly) colorblind, and are able to perform their color/texture camouflage purely by assessing brightness and contrast. And because they have both rhodopsin photoreceptors and "brains" in their tentacles, instead of rhodopsin solely in their eyes and a brain solely in the mantle, their camouflage processes are even faster. Because they have this peripheral processing ability, the photoreceptors in the arms don't have to send signals to the central brain alerting it of light variations and then wait for the brain's response commands. Instead, the light variations can be instantly perceived and processed in the arms, which makes for that lightning-fast camouflage. Hope that explains your question a little! 

Some other cool octopus tidbits: 

* Octopuses have three hearts! 
* Octopuses only have one bone in their body, called a beak. And this is what lets them squeeze out of tiny holes in their aquarium enclosures and eat the fish in other tanks before slipping back into their own enclosure at night, completely confusing aquarists. 
* [Paul the Octopus gained fame in 2010 for accurately predicting the world cup.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_the_Octopus#Divination) 
* [Cool video of an octopus completely owning a shark!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9A-oxUMAy8) (Mute the sound though, the narrator is annoying.) 
* Contrary to what a lot of people think, the plural of octopus isn't octopi or octopodes - it really is octopuses! This is because the word derives from Greek instead of Latin, and therefore uses the Greek plural form.  This is fantastic stuff, wow. On a side note, how are you liking grad school? I'm a bio student trying to decide between grad school and PA school in the next couple years. Thanks for the cool videos!  I like "Insane in the Membrane" for the first one.

I'm not sure that I make much of Paul's predictions...  Is there any indication he knew the flags represented the upcoming world cup games and not, for example, the GDP of the countries in question?

That poor shark didn't have a chance!  Octopuses must have super-strong arms! That was freaking awesome It appears that it was even able to create the little nodules to match the texture of the coral?!  Yup! Those are called papillae! Pasting a sentence from my reply above: 

&gt;  They can change their skin color by expanding and contracting sacs of pigment called chromatophores [(cool video here)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G-OVrI9x8Zs), and can change their skin texture by doing the same with papillae [(cool video here)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UWxr8oIkOdU). 

Octopuses are the best!  Oh dear gawd  camouflage? that was clearly an octopus wizard They can't see, they're just photosensitive  This title seems a bit of a stretch. Having photosensitive pigment in the skin doesn't necessarily mean the brain is processing the stimuli as sight. 

Given how complex the camouflaging, I think it would be worth testing if this photosensitive pigment acts somewhat externally to its central nervous system. The test I'm thinking of would be to check if when the octopus's brain reacts to something it sensed in its environment via its eyes, for example, by camouflaging itself, then does the photosensitive pigment create a cellular environment for the tissue around it to make it go to a specific colour. In other words, the camouflaging might be an central-nervous response to an awareness through sensory information, but exactly how to camouflage would not be in the central nervous system. (I guess they could also just test if any neurons are making any transmissions to the central nervous system due to this photosensitive pigment like the retina and optic nerve would normally.)

This is just a hypothesis, on my part, but it is the only one I can think of that makes sense, given how complex and how well-fitted the camouflage patterns are for the environment. If it weren't some sort of system like this, the octopus would have to dedicate a lot of brain real estate just to sensing and recording the environment and then forcing its body to mimic that information. Well, the article really is a lot more than the title.  [deleted] This explains why the kraken's tentacles are able to grab people off of ships without its eyes being above the water. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] "can see"

"suggesting"

Which one is it? The title is a little misleading but if you want true directed movement without "sight" bacteria use a very interesting mechanism called chemotaxis. They essentially have receptors lined along their body capable of detecting the environment's sugar (food) content, pH environment, and other factors that will drive them away from or towards certain area. They move using the rotation of flagella that is stimulated to change based on what the receptors detect in the environment. Rotating counter clockwise will move straight towards ideal conditions and rotating clockwise will cause it to tumble (randomly spin around) to try to change direction away from non-ideal conditions. Sorry for the long explanation, just geeked out a bit.  It doesn't suggest they can see with their skin at all.  It'd be like saying we can see infrared with our thermoreceptors. Does this mean they can see 360 all the time? I think the title is a bit sensationalist. Photosensitivity does not necessarily equate vision as we understand it. They may just have a sort of "sense" of color due to the input, but are most likely not consciously aware of the actual visual information they're receiving from these photoreceptors.  Interesting. Does that mean they could have another sense that isn't technically sight? Thanks for explaining!  Yeah, basically! Many animals have senses that we don't, and we don't have anything near enough to fully understand it. Magnetoception, for instance. Some birds and fish (and some other creatures) can actually sense magnetic fields. This is how they navigate during migrations and such. Even cows are theorized to have it because they often line themselves up along north-south lines while grazing. Even we have senses beyond our "5 senses," like our sense of equilibrium thanks to our vestibular system (fluid in cochlea), and our sense of proprioception (our bodies' relative position; that is, sitting, arm bent, etc...basically how you can scratch and itch on your leg without ever looking at either) thanks to our cerebellum and little filaments within our muscle cells, a sense of location in space, thanks to the recently discovered grid and place cells within the brain, and a sense of time passing (which has been shown to be quite accurate even without time pieces around). The brain has a lot going on, and a lot of creatures have bits and pieces that we don't have, so we can't fully know how they experience things. However, they were able to induce magnetoception in rats by implanting a magnetic field detector to a device that stimulated nerves. This was completely new to the brain, obviously, and for a while the rat seemed confused by the new input, but eventually, the brain being as amazing and plastic as it is, *learned how to interpret and use the information!!!* This rat learned how to actually navigate using magnetic fields. I'm sorry that I'm rambling again, but this stuff amazes me. I could never bore of talking or learning about it. 

P.S. if anyone knows more about anything I mentioned, or has a correction, please comment! I loved this. Thanks!!!  You're welcome! Any time. :) I've been reading a book "The Soul of an Octopus" by Sy Montgomery. It mentioned this. So far it's a very interesting read and I recommend seeing if your local library has it (mine does!). I think in his spare time,  he's really really into tentacle porn though... As awesome as his articles are. :D Honestly... Who doesn't like some good tentacle porn every now and then though. [deleted] Put a blindfold on him and fake a punch, if he flinches theory confirmed. OR more likely this could be how its camouflaging pigment cells work. My colleague is the author. I'll try and get him to do an AMA I would guess they more "feel" the light the same way we feel the texture of surfaces rather than see it. To see you need more than just photoreceptors. In a way, don't we too?

Our skin picks up IR radiation, allowing us to find fire, the sun, and so on. That is just due to sensing heat, though, not getting a sense of actual light, just feeling temperature differences caused by energy transference of skin absorbing the light. These cells actually respond just to photon stimulation, much like retinas or the pineal gland in some species. In many mammals it has been internalized and responds to signals sent from the eyes, but in some species (frogs, I believe are one example), the pineal gland is external and responds directly to its own light input. I believe it is more like that than what you're talking about.  Thanks [deleted] Another reason to think Octopuses are amazing. I always wonder why they have such a short lifespan though. Octopuses are so smart and amazing!

If anyone is interested here's a really well written an entertaining article about octopuses and some of the interesting things that they do!
https://orionmagazine.org/article/deep-intellect/ I looked this article over.

1)  Small numbers, poor statistics, poor age-match (the control group was substantially older), no multiple-comparisons corrections, dozens of nonsignificant results for every p&lt;0.05.

2)  The hypotheses proposed were tested via proxies.  Examination of the bibliography reveals that the evidence for these proxies relating to the actual entities under study was established solely by referring to papers in which the study authors were involved.

3)  There's no medical consensus that EEG is useful in the diagnosis of cognitive performance; indeed, there's substantial medical consensus for the inverse.

4)  "Chemotherapy" is not further defined, other than to note it was "adjuvant" in all cases, which is redundant and not particularly informative when the procedure it was adjuvant to is not defined.  The cancer survivors are noted to have included people "from stage I to IIIa."  Chemotherapy regimen A is not chemotherapy regimen B; if the effects under study are proposed to be the effect of one drug, or if the proposal is that multiple different drugs produce similar effects, those facts should have been made explicit.

5)  No effort to monitor for medical PTSD, which is well known to contribute to post-chemo cognitive difficulty.  Tests for anxiety are not adequate to rule this out.  To my mind this is the fatal flaw of this study.  A cancer diagnosis is incredibly stressful.  A more appropriate control group, if the effects of chemo were to be investigated, would have been a group of breast cancer survivors who did not receive any chemotherapy.

6)  No effort to check bone density, which is well known to be changed by certain breast-cancer adjuvant therapies and which is well known to influence the electrical permittivity of bone.  Since scalp EEG is profoundly influenced by permittivity of bone, this was an unforgiveable error.

**TL;DR:  Bad science.**  

I don't mean to suggest that chemo brain doesn't exist or that investigation of its causes are unimportant.  Chemo brain does exist and investigation of its causes is very important.  I don't think this article gets us anywhere though. Thanks for the comment. It's a commonly vocalized problem amongst people that have had chemotherapy that their brain is different. Loose studies are loose studies though. While I am a layperson that suffers from the side effects of neurological issues following chemotherapy, it's not exactly clear if it was high sustained stress, ptsd, or actual neurological changes associated from doxorubicin or taxol. I AM different however, so it was nice to see a study on it at all. Considering the route response by oncologists is that "chemo brain" goes away after about a year. It didn't for me, but there are probably innumerable factors that go along with this outcome not included in the study.  hate to pry, but different how? (if you don't mind saying) My mother's just finished chemo and if it's anything serious beyond just lack of concentration I'd sorta like to know what to watch for. In my case, my short term memory has suffered, I have intense fatigue, my short term memory is worse, my focus wanders, my short term memory has deteriorated, I have trouble analyzing large amounts of data, and something is up with my short term memory.

[Look, for all I've gone through, I need to be able to laugh at it.]

I was a software developer who worked on intense software: pharmacy/medical data, the 911 system, scientific software, military, etc. the high-level functioning needed for these is gone. I've lost my career, my livelihood, and a part of my self-identity with it. 
 Hey, thanks for the comment.  If you wouldn't mind, could you elaborate at all on your experience?  I haven't read into this at all before and I'm curious. Hey, thanks for posting this. You seem scientifically literate, I thus urge you to check the databases you have access to for Chemo Brain or 'Chemo Fog' as it is more often called now. Literature on the condition identifies the causation of Doxorubicin to neuronal oxidative stress and ETC complex 1 leakage. We also know that 5-Fluororacil and Cisplatin are much more effective at killing oligodendrocytes than cancerous cells. The causation and literature have been established. This article is by far not the first to divulge the issue, though I agree there's some sloppy science going on there. None of those agents would be used in treating Stage I to IIIa breast cancer. Actually, I was treated with Doxorubicin for Stage I breast cancer, as part of the AC+T regimen. Christ, really?  Goes to show that chemo isn't chemo - it's not one size fits all.  What was your tissue diagnosis? Good point. I had Grade 3 Her2 positive, weakly estrogen positive. Herceptin had just been approved in my province so I received it as well.  

I was 25 at diagnosis, and that will be 10 years ago in June, but being so young they treated it aggressively. I don't know what the current treatment protocols entail...

I really appreciate your scrutiny of this narrow study!

(edited for punctuation) I'm currently being treated for grade 3 her2 positive, weak progesterone positive bc.  I'm 32 so they are also trying to be aggressive.  Unfortunately I'm also pregnant so right now I'm only on the a/c regimen.  Once the baby's born I'll be given taxol and herceptin.  Just to give you some insight on what they're doing these days (although it's slightly turned around given my circumstances).

Very happy to hear you're still going strong! The one good reply buried in non scientific replies. I believe the other people in this thread that say that they have the chemo difficulties described, but I greatly appreciate your ability to critically analyze a study. A second study on this problem that addressed your points would be greatly beneficial. It needs more than one more study done. Try dozens of other study showing the same result before anything conclusive can be said. There needs to be a consensus on the subject before any conclusions can be drawn from it. To put it simply this paper on its own means nothing. This paper plus a dozen more would be of interest but as pointed out it has some serious flaws.

I know it sucks to hear people talk about their problems but from my experience people are all to quick to lie even to the person they profess to love. People are notoriously bad at being reliable hence the need to rely upon evidence instead of the confessions of a person. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] can confirm. It gets better over time though and i suspect a psychological component. It feels so unreal for a while and after chemo your mind tries to find a way to cope with everything.  Yea I would suspect that whole "I might die" thing would be distracting.  That, and depression would be a big part of it. I had testicular cancer a month before I turned 20. All of this hits pretty close to home. I'm 25 now and the whole being infertile thing still fucks up my day now and again. Damn, dude. I'm sorry to hear that. But thank you for sharing.. I'm 25... Maybe I should make a deposit in a spermbank just in case.  I got a couple samples on ice, but they were also lower count cause Luda, my left nut, is no longer with us. Just got a couple samples from RZA. Then it's like, extra scary cause I really really need to be sure about which woman I'm trying to wife up, making sure she ain't a future ex wife. It's kind of silly, and I'll be the first to point it out, but it makes the whole thing a lot more, idk, intense and stressful for me. You named your left nut Luda...any woman not wifin' you is gonna regret picking the boring uncreative shmuck they marry after you. I bet his right one is named Chris He called it RZA in the same comment already. o my bad. i didn't understand that at first
 I recognize my opinion is in the minority, but as a divorced two-baller with no kids I think it's more important to **not** bring a kid into a dysfunctional environment than it is to procreate. I'm almost 40 and recognize that my chance has probably passed, and I'm okay with that. The point is don't let fertilization anxiety spoil other life pleasures. Could always adopt, get one that's been pre-potty trained. Indeed. At this point I figure either adoption or meeting someone with a kid will be the only way I become a father. But it's important for OP and others in our situation to know that having children isn't the only marker of success in life. Humans have outgrown existing purely for reproduction. personally i'd go with Method Man but to each their own.  Doesn't start with R did i woosh? Not really, he just named them **L**uda and **R**ZA for **L**eft and **R**ight, so Mef wouldn't fit. &gt; . It's kind of silly, and I'll be the first to point it out, but it makes the whole thing a lot more, idk, intense and stressful for me.

Not at all man. Its a legitimate life concern, and don't let anyone downplay it either. You have every right to think about it.  I don't know if this will relieve you of any stress or give you a hope boost, but scientists have made *a lot* of progress on turning stem cells into sperm and eggs over the last few years alone.  [Here's an article on it.](http://www.nature.com/news/rudimentary-egg-and-sperm-cells-made-from-stem-cells-1.16636) Fellow ball cancer survivor... DO IT.  Absolutely.  One of my big regrets is I never did it in time.  Now I have to wait for cloning technology, or just hope the woman I marry doesn't mind adopting or doesn't want kids. Keep a close watch on advances in fertility technology.  While it's not likely that your ability to reproduce naturally can be restored, I'd say it's a near certainty that you'll be able to have children that are genetically yours.  The research is pretty far along on producing gametes from adult stem cells.  However, it will initially be very expensive and not covered by insurance, so if this is something you really want, focus on building a well-paying career and living beneath your means. [deleted] had testicular cancer shortly after my 26th birthday, freezed up some sperm, not technically 100% infertile now, but chances for "normally" getting a women pregnant are grim. 

That beeing infertile stuff comes up in mind my from time to time, i am 31 now, no desire for kids makes it easier to cope with it. That beeing said i often feel uncomfortable at the thought that my gf might want children some day and i can't "deliver". [deleted] I totally hear you there, but I'm glad you're ok. In the end, that's the most important. 

Watching my BIL die from something that was basically incurable was the hardest thing I've ever done. Your "i might die" quote needs to be changed to "fuck, i am dying", at least thats what was going through my mind at the time.  Indeed . . . I dealt with renal cancer, and there was no chemotherapy available because kidneys are basically filters -- throwing drugs at them doesn't result in a lot of medicine finding its mark.  Fortunately it was caught early in an unrelated scan, so I was a good candidate for cryoablation.  However, the first treatment was unsuccessful, so I went through two spans of time when I knew I had an especially deadly sort of cancer growing in my body.  That alone is a seriously mind-altering phenomenon. Can also confirm. Still in chemo brain phase. Having A.D.D. also doesn't help with the mix. A lot of the times if you ask me what you said just a few minutes ago, I won't remember. This. My last chemo was in '97, but I can't tell what is chemo brain and what is ADD. My wife - bless her - has had to get used to repeating herself a lot. 

At work though, I'm still pretty good. Maybe not all I could have been but doing better than most. But I ain't gonna start writing any novels soon.  When you were on chemo did it feel like being really drunk or was that just me? I wasn't fully conscious for most of mine. It was like being on pre-surgery anesthetics for 6 months straight. It felt like  having the flu and a bad hangover at the same time.
 For me it was like having a fairly bad hangover without the fun of the drunk. OMG when does it get better? It's been 21 years and I can't remember shit. I try so hard and I feel like I have to work ten times harder to remember 1/4 of what's currently going on. Before chemo I was sharp, like crazy sharp, I never forgot things. But now, I have lapses of time, entire weeks that I have no idea what the hell I did at work or home unless I reference my planner or email to jog my memory. Even then, the details are still sometimes fuzzy. I hate it so much.  [deleted] [deleted] I'm glad there seems to be some sort of actual study to 'prove' it, but when I started chemo 6 years ago, they seemed pretty well aware of it.  The doctor explained it to me, gave me a pamphlet with more info, and gave me the impression that it was accepted as fact.

However, I haven't heard anything definitive as to when it goes away - I'm 5 years in remission and I still get hit with bouts of chemo-brain.  It's somewhat unnerving (bordering on actually worrisome/scary) to not be sure if it's still minor traces of chemo coursing through you, or if you're actually just scatterbrained, and that's simply your natural state.

Good luck to all you survivors out there.   [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Nowhere in the article is an assertion made as to why chemo brain exists or happens. This is a purely correlative study with some physiology.  I heard about this at my first chemo session, and assumed it was a joke among the people, just using chemo as an excuse for forgetfulness. i mean we have a very good excuse for being a bit forgetful, and I just assumed that this was the source of the perception that our minds and memory suffered. But after my first round, I called my doctor in a mild panic, demanding a neuro consult and afraid that it had spread to my brain, because I was not just distracted, I was genuinely confused and having trouble with complex tasks that I used to breeze through. He gave me my consult, although he suspected it was just chemo brain, and he was right. I was still on short term disability at that point, and I began to genuinely fear that I was losing my ability to do my job. My last job with the company was a promotion based on self taught coding skills that involved me producing very complex reports that could basically boil things down to the level that a 6 year old could read them, so naturally they wanted me to produce these reports for the senior leadership. It was extremely stressful too, because I got the job for work I had done and taught myself, their demands quickly blossomed into much more complex stuff, and I felt like a teacher who was only one page ahead of the students in the textbook for the longest time. But now I was genuinely panicked because I did not think I could recreate it any more. I called my boss, and begged him to save my code on a drive somewhere, or to not turn in my laptop (too late), or to burn it onto a CD for me. After all, this was my resume now, if I chose to stay in that field of work, and I did not get my old job back. He did not do any of the things I asked, and I have not been able to return to work yet, and it has been 5 years. Many people do not understand my fear of this, because they assume that since I created it once, I can do it again. But much of it was complex stuff that I created, and I had a set of basic templates that could be adjusted to apply to so many different things. That is where you get true efficiency in a job like that. It is chunks of code that you save and build on and nurse into powerful stuff over months or years, plus one-off oddball things you may only need once in a blue moon, but when you need them, there is no easy substitute. Well, the asshole did nothing to save it for me, not even keeping it on a server somewhere for me if it violated company rules for me to have my own copy of it. If he had just done that, I could at least use it again in a different position in the company, if/when I return to work. Now I have nightmares about returning to work, and just staring at a screen unable to do anything. I tried to recreate some of it, but it felt like it was gone. Plus, it is not exactly something you can practice on your PC at home. I feel like I have lost IQ points from the chemo, and it is frustrating as hell, and leaves me wondering what I will be able to do when I am able to work again. As I was reading this thread I was thinking that chemo brain sounds like it would completely ruin a software engineer's ability to do their job. I hope things work out for you man. I'm not surprised there are negative effects, basically they're poisoning you and hoping it kills the cancer first. [deleted] [deleted] Come to think about it, I guess my uncle was pretty spacey after receiving chemo treatment. 

 Thing is, the cancer didn't actually kill him.. The medication made him dizzy &amp; he fainted in the bathroom, smashed his head against the toilet on the way down. 

  Seriously, fuck cancer.  Dealing with this firsthand. I was diagnosed with cancer in my mid-20s and did some pretty heavy duty chemo. In my life before chemo, I started reading before I was 3, was never below the highest percentile on any standardized test I ever took, graduated with highest honors from one of the best colleges in the country, was accepted to one of the best graduate schools for my field in the world, had my undergrad thesis courted for publication in more than one academic journal, and was overall pretty smart. I had to defer my admission to my grad program for a year to do cancer treatment. 

It's five years later and I've never been the same. I still graduated my program and have what most people would consider a very successful career, but I'm slow, tired, constantly confused, and always feel like I can't keep up. Sometimes I'll be looking at the microwave while wondering if anyone fed the cat, and will ask out loud whether anyone has microwaved the cat. 

Worst of all, my cancer recurred anyway and is now stage 4. I'm doing hormonal treatments instead of chemo for now and can hide the recurrence at work, but I can't believe that I basically lost the core of my being, and it was all for nothing. I teach meditation and mindfulness, and I've worked with dozens of chemo patients over the past decade...I didn't even know this was something that was a question, I just thought it was a generally accepted side effect. Sadly human medicine can only go so far... when it comes to CA treatments, it is like how we viewed medicine in the medieval times.  100+ years from now, people are gonna look at how barbaric our chemo-therapy was... but this is our best tool in the box until more advances can be done. :(  I've seen this happen first hand, a woman we tried to hire as a server. She seemed lovely and competent but after working a day with her we quickly realized something was not right with her. She would forget conversations we had minutes ago. She reminded me exactly of Dory from Finding Nemo, it was disturbing. It's unfortunate that we couldn't figure out a way to work with her because serving requires an immense amount of multitasking and she wasn't able to handle it. If we hadn't known about the chemo we wouldn't have known what was wrong with her. I can see the frustrated doctor: "God dammit, why can't my patients just pay attention...o because I've been nuking their brains" I have MS, and difficulties with concentration are a common part of it. I'm curious if what chemo is doing looks at all like what MS does to the brain/nervous system. To those interested about *why* this happens:

**Collateral Damage in Cancer Chemotherapy: Oxidative Stress in Nontargeted Tissues**

http://triggered.edina.clockss.org/ServeContent?rft_id=info:doi/10.1124/mi.7.3.6

And 

**How chemotherapy damages the central nervous system**

http://jbiol.com/content/7/4/11 I finished my last round of chemo in June of 2014 for breast cancer. My mind has been in a fog since. Went a psychiatrist for help. She has given me Vyvanse a ADHD drug and I feel like I did pre-treatment. I have only been on it for a week and I feel like a new person its amazing.  I don't think I had/have anything as bad as what's described in the article but we definitely made fun of my chemo brain a lot when I was going through treatment. Inability to pay attention and lack of memory in my case, which might have been purely psychological. I was diagnosed with testicular cancer the day before Thanksgiving last year and finished chemo late February. My father was always a reader, writes and sharp as a tack. When he began to get chemo for his prostate cancer, I unfortunately saw that man waste away. I would continue to read to him when we were together, but he couldn't concentrate and books he once lover were foreign entires to him.  That's really sad and unfair. I'm sorry. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Same with anti-psychotics here, a year on and still a problem and headaches, inability to concentrate and balance issues. Random question for the experts here: Is there any connection between "chemo brain" and "pregnancy brain"?  I've never experienced either, but the descriptions I've heard seem similar, and I know there are some similarities in immunologic privilege and angiogenesis between pregnancy and some cancers. It also has a tendency to increase cancer rates 10 years down the line. We are farrr from any kind of cure for cancer. My mom has been in remission for five years after conquering Stage-Four Colon &amp; Rectal Cancer - she still will constantly attribute her absent-mindedness and slip-ups to "chemo-brain". She's in great spirits, but sometimes it's really unsettling. It's real. I've been told chemobrain  goes away after a year. It never did and I am 5 years out now. I'm on 15 mg of adderall XR currently. It helps quite a bit with concentration and just staying awake during the day. 

It's like bad vision. Once there was a sharpness to the world and after chemotherapy everything seems muted and hazy. Like your head is stuffed with cotton. Memory is squirrly, recall of words is often difficult and I am tired most of the time. Working became difficult as I would be simultaneously antsy and exhausted. It was effecting me so much I finally gave in to my dislike for drugs and asked my GP for adderall. Still embarrassed by it though.  I used to be able to read a book in a day or two, now it's a month. Watch a movie? Can't do it... 

Yep, this is real.  Had cancer when I was around 3-4. Chemo treatments worked, and thankfully I got to celebrate my 18th birthday earlier this year. I've had issues concentrating my entire life. The doctors also warned my parents that due to the chemo, I may be sterile.  Fun times.  Suddenly things make a little more sense to me! I had chemo after surgery for testicular cancer. The cancer I beat just fine, the chemo itself almost killed me. I was delusional for several days on top of half my organs trying to shut down. Afterwards I have been diagnosed as ADD when I was not before. This helps me understand why! Thanks OP  For those saying 'it goes away over time' id like to tack on 'if you're young' my great aunt had lung cancer that metastasized to her brain (12 TUMORS IN HER BRAIN AND SHE SURVIVED) and after the intensive chemo she developed dementia which does not occur in our family at all. Youngins May be able to bounce back but the older you get the harder it is, Just like everything else I suppose  As someone with crippling attention and focus deficit, people often underestimate how horribly debilitating that can be.

Worst of all, it appears as laziness to others. 

I hope these people get prescribed stimulants to keep them able to work. So instead of funding research into curing cancer, they decided to study why people on chemo get a little loopy.

Well done. One of my friends got diagnosed with cancer when she was 11. She came back to school a couple years later at 13 after apparently she had been "cured" and you could tell she was different somehow. At 14 she started smoking, we were really good friends and after what she'd been through I didn't want to be a downer on her so I didn't really mention to her it was bad. 

At 15 she started drinking (while the rest of us also did I remember there was a thought it the back of my mind at the time going "She went through cancer, she should not be doing this at our age, it could come back". At 16 she's still the same that is until we get back from the school holidays.

First day back and my friend says "Did you hear? Georgia's dead!". I went "that's not funny man". Well it turns out she did die, her cancer came back and she died 4 days before she was meant to start sixth form.

It's now 8 years later and I still think about her. She wasn't a bad person but I definitely felt that after she went through what she did at such a young age it changed her. She wasn't as interested in school and went from being very bright to not-so. Your story is an example of how extremely difficult it is to separate the effects of psychological trauma and disruption of normal life routines and expectations, from the effects of chemotherapy (not to mention the effects of other cancer treatments, including surgery, which is often followed by use of narcotic painkillers, and radiation).  In the case of your friend, it's also hard to tell how much of her behavioral change might have been the effect of knowing that her cancer had returned and was almost certain to kill her.  She may have made a decision that if she was going to die young no matter what, she might as well "live fast", and she might well have made the same decision if her treatment hadn't included chemotherapy. is this new?  the side effects of what i'm on (interferon, not actually chemo - but the side effects overlap quite a bit) are memory loss, trouble concentrating, confusion It's just starting to be formally accepted I think in the literature. I'm on a few cytotoxic chemotherapies and some TNF-a blockers and that all together screws me up a lot.  As someone who went through chemo in 7th grade, this would explain a lot. Barely made it through high school due to focus troubles. It could be partially genetic though; my brother (one of  4 of them) has some of the same struggles and he hasn't gone through it (the way he described it sounded just like me). Or maybe it brought about the genetic trait that was passive until then (idk if that can actually happen though).  I remember the first time a nurse asked me if I was experiencing chemo brain for the first time I was like wtf is she joking? Nope. It's real but not at all the worst thing about chemo. Imo the pain from certain types of chemo are far far worse than these side effects. For me, Peg is hell. Interesting, I went through about 10 months of chemo at the very tender age of 9. Was considered in remission when I was 10, and I don't remember whether or not I was ever affected by "chemo brain." I am deathly afraid though that I may be infertile, but I sure hope not. I tend to forget things a lot, but sometimes instantly remember as I'm walking away from said place "oh shit, I forgot this there" for any of those interested I am going on 28 yrs old. 18 yrs in remission, not bad. I may be wrong, but I'm almost certain this isn't the "first study to explain" now I'll have to find it My dad is 76, finished chemo over 2 years ago. He was completely absent minded and confused during chemo. He was very irritable as well. Took almost a year for him to start gaining weight and focus better.  My mom is stage 4 breast cancer, and has, and continues, to undergo therapy. She has had chemo brain hit her hard.  My father is currently undergoing chemo.  While he is foggy brained, he's had more problems with being emotionally unstable.  He goes into rages at the drop of a hat.  It's scary, sad, and hard to deal with because you don't want to come down too hard on someone with cancer but at times he really deserves a serious kick in the ass. 

Part of it might be stress but it only really started after chemo started. 
 confirming this. my mom got this during her first heavy round. only lasted a little while.

we laughed about it, it was kinda like she had a buzz going. would do funny things like microwave ice cream because it was TOO frozen. apparently 30 seconds seemed like a good idea. 

shes had other rounds over the years, seems like it's not as bad nowadays for her.  My mom is currently going through this right now... This worries me because it sounds so close to Alzheimer's... She's fighting stage 4 lung cancer and recently had a bowel re-sectioning after they found an abscess and a tumor. She's recovering but she says that her mind is pretty damn foggy and even mentioned the Chemo brain...  It kinda explains alot, my doctors referred to my forgetfulness as "chemo brain" 10 years ago but made it seem like it was a short term effect. Now that's just depressing. I think I would be OK with severe ADD if it meant no cancer. My mom has Cancer, and I can confirm chemo-brain is a real thing. It's so hard to watch :/  I went through a cycle of chemo when I was young child and I have suffered from ADHD my entire life...the stigma behind that diagnosis makes people not take me seriously, it has truly affected my life and I am relieved that I have a study to back this up. Degrassi did a storyline about this last season. Does the research touch on if a lower dose of methotrexate might produce a similar effect? (Or has anyone heard of similar side effect?) Thanks for any input.  Interesting. I also learned this week that it's strongly suspected that giving children under 3 general anaesthetic treatment is neurotoxic and may lead to learning problems in later life. I've been looking into it as our 10 month old was due to start multiple treatments that would require it but we're weighing up the option of waiting  My dad has cancer and to help alleviate the stress, when my dad acts funny we blame it on "chemo-brain"...but we didn't know of an "in-use" term prior to this. Does it make you wander off and disappear for a while only to be found later walking naked around a store?  Has anyone read the study, and if so can you say which chemo drugs they tested?  I'm specifically interested to know the results if they tested methotrexate, and if the results apply only to chemotherapy level doses or if low-dose methotrexate causes these side effects. My 9th grade son has ulcerative colitis and is getting weekly doses of methotrexate to control flares.  It's moderate level, about the equivalent of the treatment for other autoimmune diseases like arthritis, but he still seems to have chemo brain. Compounding the problem, he also has dysgraphia. Better than the alternative. We learned in nursing school that chemo-brain goes away eventually usually about 2 years after the chemotherapy.  Chemo-brain has been known for quite a long time now. Thank you for posting this. My brother finished his chemo in December and has had some difficulties getting back into the area he studied (computer science). With this post we can identify a potential problem and find possible solutions to help him get back into it.  This took research to prove. Stupid, arrogant oncologists  Millions upon millions of pieces of anectodal evidence and we decide to study this now? Are we idiots?  I've had APL 5 times and 2 allogeneic transplants as an adult.  I'm a professional software engineer.  I had really bad chemo brain when I went back to work full time after 4 years of treatment.  After about 1.5 years of programming full time it went away completely.  I'm not saying that programming is a cure for chemo brain, but actively using your brain for problem solving certainly helps.  

EDIT: I wrote a lot of bad code the first 6 months. One thing though: I wonder if they tested for depression. Because these are also symptoms of depression, and I suspect there's a strong correlation between cancer and depression. When my daughter was 4 she was diagnosed with brain tumor.  Tumor was removed  completely, still had to under go 30 doses of radiation to brain and spine and 8 cycles of intense chemo.  She's 7 now and she has problems remembering things and processing things.  Fuck cancer......... I didn't have chemo, but I did have brain surgery to remove a benign tumor a year ago, and I've noticed problems like this since then, albeit probably not as bad. 

Maybe I'm just imagining it, or I'm a wimp looking for an excuse, but it really has felt harder to concentrate, harder to remember things, and harder to be "in the moment" sometimes. I'm pretty sure the causes of whatever I'm experiencing aren't the same as "chemo brain," it just intrigues me that my symptoms sound so much like other comments here. Yeah, this is more or less true. My mother forgets things very easily, can't keep up with current news or pay attention for anything. She's like a kid with ADHD nowadays. Chemo messed her up ;/

I mean, she's still the same person, but a harder person. Well it is better than dying of cancer. Not trying to be funny here. My son's oncologist had to stop her explanation of the possible side effects for the chemo that we would be giving him to remind me of this. Nor am I trying to trivialize the problem. Knowing what you are in for is always a good idea. Wow... very interesting. I had ALL when I was 4 and I went through heavy chemo (I was very high risk). I've been in remission for 24 years now. 

I've had problems focusing since I was in elementary school. But I was diagnosed with ADHD at that age and I always just assumed it was that. But this makes me think
 maybe not... 

I have horrible memory and lose track in the middle of conversations. It may be a combination of both ADHD and chemo brain..but this is news to me. Maybe I should go back to a doctor and discuss this. And this is still the best thing we have for cancer treatment? My god. One day our children's children will be saying "what the hell were they thinking back then?" Of course it's anecdotal, but for me a reality. During chemo I could not concentrate at all. I could only read magazines, not books.  I felt absolutely fine otherwise. It was 10 years last month and I am only marginally better. I was a pilot but had to give it up because I could not multitask and maintain situational awareness.  My routine desk job is challenging because sometimes I can't recall a complete task I did just the day before. Even my husband notices the cognitive changes I have had and blames chemo. But hey, I am still here. I went through Chemo 15 years ago and have searched enough on the internet to make me think it was a purposely hidden side effect. I used sticky notes for years to recall important things and can remember numbers (clock card, pagers, phones) pre-chemo to this day. Only started to regain new numbers in  the last few years. Need a study to prove? How about the patient and families words. Stress also leads to an inability to concentrate. Stress like having cancer. Also, being from dead from cancer can also impair your cognitive abilities, so I'd say, go with the chemo.  My buddy currently is dealing with this, he just finished his treatment, the doctors did tell him that it would go away after a year or so I can attest to this personally. In some ways this and the many other side affects makes you second guess whether taking chemo was worth it. But for most people the risk of not taking chemo just isn't worth it. Welp, if I didn't take chemo, I'd have died over a decade ago. While I do struggle to stay focused, I'm happy to be alive. ;) there is not enough of this sentiment in this thread. I'm happy that you not only survived, but have such a good outlook on it. Father definitely had that after lung cancer and onset into full blown dementia one day we're going to look back at chemotherapy like we looked back at other primitive forms of medicine 

its such a crude, and scorched earth, way of disabling cancerous cell growth - but we're so basic and lacking finesse to surgically approach it any other way

we're mutating the mutations just to make enough of it (hopefully) benign, and theres collateral damage [deleted] Is this true?  Any citations? Lucky me, went through chemotherapy and radiotherapy at age 4 ( retinoblastoma), never had any problems at school or focusing, even enjoyed lots of mindfulness meditation back then... My dad certainly was not himself the weeks that he did chemo.  I had never seen him like the way he was.  Wandering is precisely the right word to use when describing how he was. I thought it was due to neuron death caused by penetration of the chemo drugs to the brain. My mother experienced chemo brain as well..  she was sharp as a tack, before, and completely absent-minded during treatment.  It's a frightening thing to experience..  I'm glad science is showing that this side effect fades over time.   Considering chemotherapy is a pretty barbaric concept,  we should be kind of grateful there are not worse long-term effects.  You are pumping your body with poison in hopes that it kills all the bad cells before it kills all the good cells. Anyone who has worn any suit can tell you this. Especially if you live somewhere where it isn't common.  

I think it has to do with the confidence aspect. You tend to carry yourself a bit higher when you look sharp. Plus it probably has to do with the idea of power and wealth too, people tend to assume you're more important if you're dressed the part. Wearing a modest suit around, taking pride in how I presented myself caused a huge change in how others treated me. Suddenly store clerks were nicer,  strangers were friendlier, and women would approach me to talk more often. It was a lot different than my usual jeans and a tee-shirt.  

Results will vary. I live in a pretty high end suburban area with very low crime.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I live in country/city where suits are the norm. If I go to the store in anything but nice jeans and a button up I get weird looks. Hell, if I do my laundry in my building in basketball shorts and a t shirt, people assume I'm sick or something. So when I go home to the states and wear a suit outside, or nice slacks, shirt, and tie, it's like another world. Here if someone sees you in a suit at the supermarket it's whatever. But like you said, in the states people treat you completely differently. Personally, I enjoy dressing well in my day to day life. Maybe not a jacket, but shirt and tie with sleeves rolled up is casual to me now. It also helps when you have clothes that fit well though. &gt; I live in country/city where suits are the norm. 

Where is that? Ecuador/Ambato It sounds terrible that there's so much pressure to wear suits there because it's hot there. Ehhh not really. It all depends on where you live. If you live in the coast or the next to the amazon, then the dress code is much more lax. I was in the rainforest on Thursday and was dripping sweat in shorts and a t shirt just standing. A suit would be miserable. But I live in the mountains, roughly 9,000ft above sea level, so yes it's warm but it's almost always a constant 65 during the day. Sometimes during mid day when the sun is out it can get pretty bad, but nights and mornings are really cool. Average morning and night temp is roughly 45 degrees.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Complete opposite response here. I live in Portland, OR. You never wear fancy clothes here. If you do, you stand out of place. Not really in a good or bad way, but leaning more bad. When you go to a fancy restaurant here, you don't wear a suit or nice clothes. You wear your every day attire. Every one does. A suit will most likely be seen as snobby.

Edit: So many hipster comments. 1. You're not clever. Many others have already made the joke. 2. In all reality, hipsters are confined mostly to hawthorne street alone in Portland. Most of the portland metro area is indeed, not hipsters. They aren't the ones that set the social expectations any way. In my immediate neighbourhood, if you are seen wearing a suit, people will normally ask if you were at someone's funeral or if you were on your way to court.  Seriously. Yeah I grew up in PDX, but was living in DC for a while. In DC you wear suits and look otherwise "professional" at all times. Moved back home to PDX and wore my DC clothes to work. Didn't go for the whole suit, but I only lasted a week of being gently mocked before switching to jeans.  My IT coworkers mocked me into buying jeans. They had a jeans day which I had to specially purchase jeans for. Midwest. 1/3rd of the staff had grown up on farms. Only ? Must have been on the fringes of the Midwest.  Must be one of them city slickers.  [deleted] [deleted] One of our major hospital chains in town doesn't even have a dress code beyond not getting called out for unprofessionalism by your boss. Half the time it looks like a metal concert, the rest is scrubs and business casual.  [deleted] I should point out that I live in SE, but this same thing applies to NE and downtown around pioneer square. If you're on the south side of downtown, you'd blend in. I'm a lawyer in the SF bay area.  Nobody wears a suit to meet with the engineers, so as to be taken seriously. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] It does make sense.  If you show up in a suit when everyone is wearing casual wear, you feel a bit silly, but you take off your jacket and just move on.  If you show up casual and everyone is wearing a suit, that's it, you're going to be noticed and uncomfortable the whole time.  Better to show up overdressed than under-dressed.  You might feel silly, but you won't feel weak. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] This happened to me. I showed up to a job interview in a suit and tie and without exception, every other applicant was in jeans and tshirt. I felt really out of place and a bit silly but really confident. It was absolutely no shock to me when I was offered the job. I work for a very casual tech startup with no dress code. There is a very strong correlation between candidate age and casualness of their dress. People right out of college almost always show up in suits, those with 10+ years show up in business casual (heavy on the casual) or just jeans and a t-shirt. Never once have we cared and if the suit helps with then younger candidates' confidence then all power to them.  That is mostly because you are in a field of talent and expertise that is in high demand and low supply. Dress code is a social thing more valuable in sales or public speaking heavy side jobs where presentation and appearances are part of the the business. Absolutely. I live in the Bay Area and the standards of recruiting can be very different. If you're hiring for tech roles there's a lot of searching around involved rather than sifting through resumes unless you're a company like Google with lots of applicants. There's not as much luxury to care about appearance especially when it doesn't affect their job. It's interesting to see how people's hiring philosophies totally differ from one industry to another. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] One time in high school, toward the end of the school year when it was basically summer even in the northeast, the vice-principal told me that I had been nominated and given an award by the local Kiwanis (little more than a participation ribbon, really) that would be presented at a special lunch. Right now. So, it was all these older guys in suits and a bunch of kids who either had been given decent notice or were just preppy to begin with, me in a ratty T-shirt and shorts, and a restaurant that was chilled like a meat locker unlike the non-air-conditioned school. I've never felt so underdressed before or since.

I never found out whether something had been mailed home and tossed away without reading by my mom because it looked too much like it was asking for money, or whether the mistake was in the school office. I work as a B2B contract and sales consultant, so I meet with several CEOs and CFOs everyday, which necessitates a full, expensive suit and tie everyday (unless you're meeting with a labor leader, it's better to go more casual so not to give off a shitbag 'better than you' air)

At first I hated it; now I love it. I feel great before and after work, if I need to stop for food or go shopping, etc. Not only are you likely seen as successful and desirable to others when you're dressed sharply, you feel that way about yourself; more attractive, more on the ball, more confident.  I dress professionally for school/work and usually scrubby T-shirts and jeans on my off-time.

People treat me MUCH better when I'm wearing "formal" clothing, even if my tattoos are visible.

Something about a collared shirt and tie says "respect this person". I find this study interesting, because I have read the psychology before, and the research for a while has said there is some attached perception of power or importance to suits, which can reflect in how you behave, etc.

But in my life, where I was both: forced to wear suits through my last years of schooling, and moved into a field where no one cares what you wear at all. 

Being forced into wearing suits during my Sixth Form at school made me hate them at all costs. Since leaving that school I have worn a suit less than ten times (this was five years ago), 7 of those were for job interviews (graduation, meeting the Duke of Edinburgh, and a funeral are the others), and never get any of the positive feelings from whenever I wear it. I don't feel powerful, or confident, I just feel like a child in adult clothing, because that was how it was when I was made to wear a suit. My friends my age have the opposite reaction, but they very rarely get to wear them growing up, so they still only have the attachments that society has of suits.

And then I went to a field where wearing a suit (or any formal wear) is a generally dumb idea. In experimental physics a suit is super impractical for doing your day job, some of the older guys where shirts and the like, but they never look 'smart'. Most people below thirty dress as you would expect of people on the weekend, and I have spoke at conferences wearing my normal clothes, which seems very common. As less people here actually wear formal wear or suits, people seem to care less, and those wearing suits or other formal wear stick out like a sore thumb. 

*I also hate wearing a suit because it is far less comfortable than what I usually wear, and I have no interest in wearing less comfortable clothes when it confers no other benefits to me* [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] you absolutely feel different when you dress well, not necessarily just suits either.  When you feel comfortable and you know you look great, it changes your entire presence.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I love how we can be manipulated by absolutely everything; even by our clothing.

Goddam but humans are a nutty species. It's surprising to me that people believe so strongly in free will when these types of studies come up. And this isn't even the most compelling on that front.

You are not in complete control of your behavior no matter how much you want to believe it. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Maybe wearing a suit makes people think differently - in the contexts where a suit already has meaning. It would be interesting to compare this to dress codes in scientific and technical labs. I've worked in orgs where people are all super smart (rooms full of PhDs etc.), and many (although not all) folks would come in dressed casually, sometimes very casually. Most PhDs I know (myself included) are lab/experimental people, we dress good, but not suit-everyday tier. 

Suits are for weddings, funerals and big events. 

I've got some job interviews coming up, I'm not gonna put on a suit. If asked, I'll say that I prefer to feel comfortable for the interview.  Put on a suit for the first time for my college graduation.  A very nice pinstripe with a red power tie and a double Windsor knot.  Went to Target because my wife thought everyone would want to play Mexican Train at the afterparty.  I don't know.  Anyways,  I'm walking to the checkout line and there's a lady in a power chair speeding perpendicular to me.  Iy thought she was going to hit me without even seeing me.  I sped up a bit so she'd miss.  She turns at the last second and tries to cut me off, hits the hanger with bags of pretzels going 5 mils an hour and knocks it off, sending bags of pretzels going everywhere.  I pick up the pretzel bags and put them back up.  She sits there staring at me.  I asked her if she wanted to go first, and she replied, "Oh, no.  You go right on ahead" with a sneer.  I offered again, she declined again, then said, "I know all about your type.  You've got your place and you expect me to take MY place.  I went to reform school, I know when to bow down to people like you.."  I was flabbergasted.  Honestly I don't know to this day WTF she was talking about.  But I'm pretty sure it was the power suit.   [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I specifically don't wear suits or ties to work, and I teach computer programs to adults.  I don't because dressing formally gives it an institutional atmosphere where the students are seeing me in a position of power, which makes it more intimidating to ask questions or be natural.  It makes a huge difference. I am a teacher and I wear a suit and tie everyday to show respect to my students. What we are doing in school is important. I want them to know I think it's important, so I suit up. My students are there because they pay to be there and want to learn the subjects.  They need to feel comfortable in asking me questions and don't need a reminder of its importance.  Honestly, I don't care if they learn anything at all.  It's not my job that they learn anything, it's that they're happy with the class and feel they got their money worth.  It's a much different environment than in school, where kids are there not because they want to be, but because they have to. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] People organizing protests should request that everyone wear suits. It may keep things from turning violent. Why the hell are there so many deleted messages ? [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] While this study and it's effects on a suit making people feel powerful are interesting, it definitely highlights a very powerful effect that I see dismissed often on reddit. Our clothing really helps define and shape out mental process, how we see ourselves and interact with the world. It's very obvious on say, Halloween, where people enter into a costume and specifically change their entire personality to match it, however, it also happens no matter what 'costume' we wear. People act and treat each other very different in different sets of clothes. It is one of the defining features of a 'uniform', is not just to provide people with clothing, but rather to foster a sense of cohesiveness as a group, designate rank, and show social status. Your appearance and clothing are one of the most powerful indicators of your personality and position, and typically the first thing people see and use to make determinations about you, and also influences how *you believe people see you and therefore how you should act accordingly*.

 [deleted] it better be a tailored fit suit. whenever i see someone wear a suit that doesn't fit well, i just want to shake them Not when you begin to associate the suit with being treated like garbage by the people who make you wear it. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I don't wear a suit often, but when I do, I feel like an imposter. But I suppose that's feeling the power to deceive. [deleted] Every time I put on a suit I feel like an imposter. I feel like I'm finally in the right skin. [deleted] I think wearing a suit indicates that you are either part of the establishment, or are trying to deal with it on its own terms.  If you don't wear a suit, you are probably out of that game, either through poverty or independence. This explains why I feel unstoppable when I am wearing a nice suit.  [deleted] Also on the front page right now &gt; http://i.imgur.com/vuBumaG.jpg https://i.ytimg.com/vi/Km6bFBSVty4/maxresdefault.jpg

Double-tie Marty McFly knows how to play the game. Similar to Knights in armor then... Or police regalia. Feelings of authority and superiority. Study suffers from the typical flaw of psychology studies, where the sample comes from college students. It isn't a representative sample of the population in general. Are confident and "feeling powerful" the same in this context? Typically when I wear a suit or sports coat, etc. I don't feel power hungry. I feel good. I look good. I'm confident. End of story.  Power hungry and powerful are also not the same thing. Nor are cock hungry and cocky.  [deleted] I get that feel when wearing my armoured bike jacket Yup. Same here. I wear a suit or sports coat every chance I get (when it's appropriate, of course) not because it makes me feel powerful, but I feel more self confidant. I wonder if it has something to do with us internalizing the role we're expected to play. 


Similar to the Stanford prison experiment. Put a guy in a prison guard outfit and he'll act more like a prison guard. Put a guy in a suit and he'll act like a captain of industry.  People who want to "change the system" make a far better impression when they're suited up and have their hair cut than when they're wearing 100% hemp clothing and have dreadlocks.  People don't wear suits, suits wear people. It doesn't make me feel powerful, it makes me feel silly and dressed-up.  I just had to write a TED talk for school about how attire affects you. It was really incredible. Should definitely read the study about enclothed cognition.  I was told this during my sophomore yeah of high school in a speech class. I decided that from that day on, I'd always wear, at the minimum, as button down tucked in. It has turned my confidence around completely and I'd recommend it to everyone.  All this means is marketing works. &gt;Wearing a Suit Makes People Think Differently

Makes me uncomfortable with absolutely no feelings of power

More like feelings of powerlessness, since I never voluntarily wear a suit Since so many people are asking, I'll state what I understand to be the real advancement here. I don't have access to the Nature article, but from the abstract and getting my PhD in a very closely related area, I think I can infer what they've done. (I studied how the oxygen reduction mechanism changes in aprotic ionic liquids when you carefully add proton activity, and spent about five years working on non-aqueous metal-air batteries.)

People have tried to make a Sodium-Oxygen battery for a while, and you first attempt this by simply putting a piece of sodium in an electrolyte opposite an air-cathode and seeing if it runs. The air-cathode is the part of the battery they're talking about in this paper.

The electrolyte you choose is very important as it's purpose is to transfer ions from one electrode to the other. In this case it transports Na+ from the anode to the cathode in the form of Sodium Triflate. This is the easiest way to do it, but historically it's had a lot of problems.  The big problem is that you have Na+ in solution.  When reduced oxygen (as superoxide in this case) meets Na+ it immediately reacts and forms sodium superoxide NaO2.

Why is NaO2 a problem/challenge? Because its not soluble in anything. Ideally you would want a solvent that can also dissolve the discharge products of the air-battery, but since these are usually oxides that's very difficult. So as soon as you reduce oxygen at your air-cathode, you form NaO2 immediately at the site of oxygen reduction. This oxide precipitates from solution and covers your cathode, blocking catalytic sites, clogging air channels, and limiting subsequent diffusion of oxygen or sodium. So your battery only lasts for as long as you have available surface area in the cathode, which is pretty short.

What the authors seem to have done is add a little bit of water (10ppm) which they've called a proton transfer catalyst (because that's it's function and other species might work too). The water reacts with reduced oxygen (superoxide) first to form peroxide and this peroxide diffuses away from the cathode to react with Sodium Triflate in the electrolyte where it likely forms Sodium Peroxide. This saves your air-cathode from being clogged by discharge products and lets you fully discharge the battery.

Now the authors must have had some further insights into exactly whats happening here to make it into Nature, but until I get a copy of the article I won't be able to say exactly what was significant there.

edits: I was writing sodium but thinking magnesium most of this time so I made too many references to peroxide, which doesn't show up until there's water present. (Actually superoxide is extremely basic with a pKa of 24 or something close to that, it'll destroy almost any organic compound it encounters, even taking the C-2 proton off imidazolium. It's been a couple years since I wrote my disseration, so I don't remember the exact value.) This is actually very close to what is happening! You are 100% correct in that the main problem is that NaO2 is not soluble in anything. This is the main issue not only of Na-O2 batteries, but all aprotic metal-O2 batteries (such as Li-O2, and some papres on K-O2 exist etc.). What we have found is that this process, in the presence of a proton, changes the reaction to first form HO2 (based on the reaction of H+ with the generated O2-), which is soluble in the aprotic media. This then undergoes a metathesis reaction with Na+ ions to make NaO2, which deposits on the surface. This process then regenerates the H+. In this sense, the proton acts as a carrier and transports the superoxide from the cathode to the solution phase where NaO2 can be made. This is a much more efficient reaction that a pure surface driven reaction of Na + O2 --&gt; NaO2. This is why in the absense of a proton source, the performance of Na-O2 batteries is very poor, as we have shown.

This does not necessarily prevent clogging of the cathode, as the end product is still insoluble and the total cell capacity is still purely a function of how much NaO2 you can stuff into the cathode. What we report on is a how to better facilitate the solid to solution mechanism, which in turn allows the NaO2 discharge product to form large cubes as opposed to a surface layer of NaO2 (which occurs without a proton catalyst). As a result of this, there is a capacity increase. Clogging of the air cathode still occurs, but since the discharge/charge reactions are now solution based, it prevents "early" cell failure due to thin films of NaO2 preventing electronic/mass transport, which causes termination of the cell. 

If you do not have access to the article by any means, I would be more than happy to send it to you! Just let me know. 
 Wait, you're one of the authors? Yes I am! I'm in the process of getting the flair. This subreddit is moving so fast....can't keep up with all these comments until later on :( Sure, I'd love a copy. 

Are there any leads at this point on minimizing NaO2 formation to the extent that these batteries could be commercially viable without having to be replaced at an impractical rate? Hmmmm....not really. The problem with these metal air batteries in aprotic media is that NaO2 (or Li2O2 in the case of Li-air battery) are the discharge products, and they are what governs the capacity. So being able to reliably discharge and then charge is what will govern the battery lifetime (along with minimizing decomposition products, which is another topic completely). NaO2 itself is somewhat soluble, moreso than Li2O2, which is one of the reasons why the Na-air batteries perform better. In terms of a completely soluble product, however, I am currently not aware of any leads besides simply using an aqueous system, which has its own host of problems. I think to get to meaningful energy densities, say over 400 Wh/kg, you're looking at 8M+ solutions of discharge products on most scales. It's really tough to keep any metal soluble at mutli-molar levels; even zincate crashes out above 2M or so in 16M KOH.

Congratulations on the Nature acceptance and coming up with a strategy to redissolve your NaO2 precipitates. Might I ask for a copy as well? I'm an Electrical Engineering &amp; CS student, but I really wanted to do physics and chemistry. I will eventually, but money first. In the meantime, I try to read as many articles as I can. :) Did you really get a paper in *Nature* by adding a little water to something?  ;-) Instant article! Just add water! [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] As soon as I read Sodium and battery in the same sentence I figured it had to be Nazar's group. She is a crap prof but damn is she brilliant. Damn, you're really cool! Wishing you and your team continued success, and congratulate you on your breakthrough! A couple nice redditors sent me a copy but I've spent most of the day dancing so it took me a while to read.

If I understand correctly, the cell dies when it runs out of water, not because it's reached a discharge capacity that clogs the cathode or some other mechanism.  If you could control the relative humidity of your oxygen source (and let the electrolyte equilibrate at the %RH before assembling the cell), you could really look at the NaO2 morphology. **It strikes me as odd that your capacity doesn't quite double when you double the water content, but your individual crystal volume jumps by a factor of 16x.** There must be a lot of ripening going on and having a constant source of protons with your oxygen stream would let you keep electrolyte composition constant for all states of charge.

Alternatively you could grow different size NaO2 crystals in your cathode and then recharge those cathodes in other solutions using your transfer trick to look more explicitly at dissolution rates. Y'all are really lucky to have cubic crystals which, with a known size distribution, give you a easy relationship between surface area and state of charge. It's really sweet to see this level of scientific discourse in such a public and accessible forum. I want to know more about the dancing! I quit my job as a research scientist in August and rode my motorcycle 44000km to Argentina to spend 2015 learning spanish and improving my skills at argentine tango. Not bad. I understand from the article that it's something a lot of people have been working for but what I haven't seen is *why*. From the perspective of someone who has no grounding (please excuse the unintentional pun) in the field, what does it mean going forwards? Nice pun ha ha.

Essentially, one of the main issues with the metal-oxygen battery field (primarily lithium air, and more recently sodium air) is the large inefficiencies during the discharge/charge process. What we have shown is that with the use of a proton phase transfer catalysis (water in this case), we are able to mediate the discharge/charge process so that these inefficiencies are greatly reduced, and hence the cell is able to maintain more cycles and deliver more energy.

At most, this research serves as an understanding of the metal-air chemistry, and provides one avenue for increasing the efficiency of the normally sluggish and inefficient cell processes. Moving forward, new additives can be developed that either a) improve this efficiency or b) guide this process towards specificity of NaO2 production to minimize decomposition reactions. If this can be done, then we can start talking about achieving the necessary power density and cycling capabilities for real world applications.

Until then, these small steps in the early development stage are what is necessary to open up new possibilities that were previously unknown or not understood.  I'm not very knowledgeable about any of this. As a layperson I always thought that sodium and water didn't mix, and caused a violent reaction when brought into contact. How is this not an issue with what you're doing? That's a tough problem that I think almost all the reviewers touched on during the peer-review process. In short, this is a very small amount of water (10 ppm = 0.001%)...not enough to cause a violent reaction. Given the organic electrolyte used forms a passivation layer on the sodium, this is more than enough protection to prevent sodium reaction with the 10 ppm water. However, at higher concentrations of water, this does become an issue, and some pre-passivation of the sodium is a must. I would love to read the full article!  pdf of the full paper http://www.docdroid.net/11se6/nchem2260.pdf.html Thank you!  I'm glad to see that I understood the article properly. I thought it was really well written and easy enough to understand for the non-battery chemist. It is interesting how the trace H+ can essentially act as a charge transporter from the cathode to solution before nucleation of NaO2 begins to occur on the electrode. 

I didn't see much on future directions for the project. Could you comment on what your priorities are to further improve the system? Perhaps improving superoxide transport away from the electrode? My background is engineering, not chemistry...so currently I am working to understand the failure mechanisms of these systems (such as decomposition products) and use this to develop cathode materials. So move away from carbon. Others in the group are looking at new additives that show an improvement compared to water in terms of rate capabilities so that the cell can reach much higher charge/discharge rates than is currentlt possible. This next area of research though is still in its infancy, so I am not sure if these will even work out :\ Any way someone can get an ELI-have-a-high-school-knowledge-of-chemistry?  I will have a shot at this:

Normal NaO2 formation, which is surface based reaction, is slow and inefficient. Add add in some water (or any proton "catalyst" of choice) to make the reaction happen in solution as opposed to on the cathode surface, and his reaction becomes much easier to do.

I tried.

If that didn't help, send me a pm and we can work through it if you are still interested. If you grease your pan then powder the greased pan with flour, your cake won't stick.  They want to make batteries, not baked goods, so they throw a little water on it to make the flour clump.  

Edit: in case you were wondering, most of the kids in my high school chem class were not bright.  **Why this trick doesn't work for a rechargable battery**

So I've used this protic additive technique in my own metal-air battery research, but this was in a corporate research lab where we were focused on rechargable chemistires and I'll tell you why we abandoned it.

There's a fundamental problem in using this solution to build a rechargable battery. Your discharge products are temporarily soluble; just long enough to diffuse away from the cathode. This means your metal-oxide precipitates in the middle of the electrolyte. Unfortunately the middle of your electrolyte is by necessity electrically isolated from either electrode. How are you going to get electrons back into the NaO2 to recharge it if there's no electrical contact?

To reduce sodium (recharge the battery) it needs to be soluble or physically in contact with an electrode. This proton transfer catalyst did not solve the oxide solubility problem, but it did remove the sodium oxide from contact with one of our electordes. This isolation + insolubility means it's lost from the system and essentially a one way trip.

Now if we change solvents to something that could possibly dissolve the NaO2, we could recharge the battery. But then we wouldn't need proton transfer catalyst in the first place because we wouldn't have the cathode precipitation problem.

**eta:** What I've described is a general feature of metal-air cells using protic additives to complex superoxide. This paper seems to have struck upon a unique feature of sodium though, which I have never worked with. This allows them to recharge the cell in a way I don't yet understand. I'll give it a closer read once I get a copy of the Nature article. I am not a battery chemist but I am working on a PhD in electrocatalysis at the moment. My understanding of the article is that while there is a deposit of NaO2 in the battery as a result of O2 reduction, the PPTC they use mediates transfer of oxygen species (and electrons) to and from the electrode and solution, thereby creating the electrical communication you were talking about. So, as long as their catalyst is soluble in the electrolyte (being H2O and other weak acids), it can interact with the deposited NaO2 to transport the superoxide species back to the electrode as HO2 for re-oxidation to O2, thus enabling recharge-ability. 

We are not dealing with the electron transfer to reduce and oxidize sodium but rather we are dealing entirely with oxygen. Take a second look at the diagram on the news page, it makes it pretty clear what is going on. Also, here is the diagram describing the reactivity with its caption.

[Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/qiZdKz2.png) I'm working in solar which has recently found that a combination of amine and thiol based organics can easily dissolve metals and metal sulfides by forming what I believe is a Bronsted acid/base complex. Could a solvent system like this be used to keep NaO2 soluble? I suspect it would react vigorously.

Adding additional water will get the sodium in solution, but then you need to get the water back out at the cathode in such a way the Na+ deposits on electrode . Not my field, but would it be possible to add some buffer and use enzymes like Superoxide Dismutase (SOD) and Catalse to convert the superoxide radicals before they react with much of the sodium?  Hi,

I haven't had time to run through the procedures yet, but the reaction conditions as described would be quite unfriendly to an enzyme. Enzyme structure and function are intimately related to structure and ionic strength of the solution. Here, with sodium metal, peroxide, and all sorts of other goodies around, the structure of the enzymes will be modified and the solution is unlikely to have a "normal" concentration of ions. THey even added a "small amount of water" to the system-- the enzymes would be unlikely to function long, if at all. Biological enzymes are usually living in slightly to somewhat salty water.

Cheers I think that is effectively what they're doing with the "proton phase-transfer catalyst", but I don't know much about the biological enzymes. You explained that really well. Thank you. Not in the industry but I am interested. While this may not be rechargeable in the traditional sense could the battery be "recharged" by adding more Na? Maybe draining the NaO2 as waste to be recycled in some other process? Perhaps long rods of Na like a mechanical pencil or something. You are not technically recharging but if this were an electric car battery it would get you back on the road.   This batter is special in that it can use this trick to keep the cathode clean and still recharge. The acid (water) they use to complex the superoxide and prevent it from forming NaO2 on the cathode can also be used to help redissolve the NaO2. As far as I know this strategy only works for sodium batteries, and the authors make a point of saying it doesn't work for Lithium. Could you add a third electrode to the battery where the NaO2 would accumulate and would be used as the recharge terminal? here is the nature article

http://rdcu.be/cXJ7

 Here is a **pdf of the full paper** if anyone's interested: http://www.docdroid.net/11se6/nchem2260.pdf.html So you're telling me these guys just added water If you looked through alot of the chemical and materials inventions in the last 50 years that were groundbreaking, many of them came down to just 'adding water' to something that already existed using a process. Just add water. That's really interesting. Could you point me to some examples of this type of groundbreaking research? I would actualily say "just add water" is representative of the idea.

&gt;"To make it as a primary investigator, the trick is to find things in the sigma aldrich catalog that you can mix together to make JACS papers."

-paraphrased, attributed to Kit Cummins, MIT


i've used that trick a few time This seems like something that fits high throughput experimentation . so why isn't HTS standard on chemistry  labs. Big reason for it. Combinatorial approaches are not really well suited for baseline discovery. Maybe you sample 3 concentrations, but the interesting phenomena happen below the lowest threshold tried. Maybe some reaction is inhibited by the solvents chosen. Or more recently, I found these little microcrystal rhombuses in low yield while trying to do something completely unrelated, so I said, "huh, why rhomboids?" and that opened up a whole new line of inquiry into self-assembly that no one else had really addressed. 

Sure you can use robots and libraries of compounds to discover certain things (and in medicine, that is done, a lot), but combinatorial approaches are better used for solving extremely targeted problems. For instance, at the LBNL molecular foundry, we have a scientist who uses robots to make nanocrystal synthesis more robust, and he uses that tool to understand how to dope nanocrystals with rare-earth elements (eg lanthanides) in pursuit of upconverting nanoparticles. 

 Its awesome that we always have fellow Redditors who have PhD's on these subjects that always come up. Thank you for your expertise &amp; being a redditor!! This is the best post I've read on Reddit since I have joined.  You sir/madam are a beautiful scientist and your contribution to this thread made my day.

-Explains the process in a perfectly laymen fashion

-Gives credit to the process

-Answers questions I had
 
-Sources Nature and explains they do not know exact processes until further reading


If I knew how to gold you I would. https://www.reddit.com/gold/about/

Couldn't find an actual "how to" on giving it to someone else. Hope this helps a little. If you want to give him gold, use this:

http://www.reddit.com/gold?goldtype=gift&amp;months=1&amp;thing=t1_crnl14w I can confirm through my own research that this "giving gold" does actually work.  I can't fully explain how it works, but only that it does. I can confirm via simulation the effects that a gold giving device has on the macro-system, and the device characteristics of giving gold, but I cannot fully guarantee that such a simulation will transfer to a fully realizable product. You can tip bitcoin with changetip or with the bitcoinbot I'm 1 year out from my degree and they recently cut off my journal access. Otherwise I'd help you. I'm really surprised you don't have access to every journal under the sun through your university's library website. Where on earth do you study? Tehran? I don't think Iran is blocking Nature.  The scientist I work with who's from Iran seemed to have full access to pretty much anything he wanted without much effort. If I read the first paragraph correctly, I believe that he's been out of education for quite some time. Four years free. Funny that you mention Tehran, I'm a Canadian researcher (genomics) and I've been absolutely floored by how well my many colleagues from The University of Tehran are performing. Iran has its problems, but it's not nearly as backwards as we've been led to believe. [deleted] Tehran is a bad place to pick on.  Think more, Pyongyang. I want this NaO. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Would love for one of these to be true. Anyone with any knowledge in this field actually know if this is really the one? It's cool, but it's super early. ~~They haven't recharged it yet.~~ edit: I'm not sure how recharging works, but the PPTC seems to be a critical component of it.

The article above is basically Waterloo's press release and the purpose is mostly to get alumni and donors excited about the university again. The actual Nature article is posted in another link and contains the real meat.

To nitpick a little, they're advertising an aprotic system and then saying "if we add protons it works". But then again, it's super difficult to get below the 10ppm of water they have present.

(My PhD dissertation studied almost exactly this topic.) So if I understand correctly you're saying the initial conditions for the reaction are so difficult to attain that it diminishes the value of their finding? Like how superconductors can do awesome things but there's the small problem of getting stuff close to absolute zero?

Also, as you seem pretty clued in on the subject, is there any reason to believe the catalyst that will be needed to recharge a lithium-oxygen battery just became easier to find as a result of this research? From my completely uninformed point of view this reads like "Hey guys, we found a thing. It doesn't do what you want it to do, but it does something similar in a totally different set of circumstances... That counts, right?"

Edit: Last question, is the 93% efficiency figure in this article the same as "a near-perfect recharge of the cell" which they mention elsewhere? If so, a 7% decrease in capacity per charge sounds like a helluva lot to me. How does that compare to lithium-ion batteries? I believe the 93% efficiency means that only 7% of the supplied energy is lost while recharging it.   ~~There's no evidence that I can see (not having access to the full Nature article) that they've even attempted to recharge it.~~

~~In this case 93% efficiency probably means they discharge 93% of the sodium that was available in the anode.~~

see comment below, I mis-read the charging profile of the cell. I do have access to the journal article itself, but battery chemistry is a little outside my area (I'm an inorg. chemist working on catalysts). After a quick look I found this:

&gt;The results, shown in Fig. 5, are representative of mul- tiple experiments. Figure 5a clearly shows that the PPTC is the criti- cal component that allows for full oxidation of NaO2 at a low overpotential. The charging voltage (2.3 V) for 10 ppm H2O is the same as previously reported for dry electrolytes and is much lower than in the absence of the PPTC, where a complex profile is observed (mostly above 3.5V). The activation step at initial charge is ascribed to electrolyte decomposition, which releases minute amounts of water, as proposed by Gasteiger and colleagues, who observed a similar voltage jump on oxidation of a cathode pre- filled with commercial Li2O212. In accord, NaO2 cubes are oxidized on full charge (see the inset SEM image in Fig. 5a), but potentials in excess of 4.0 V are required in the absence of added water. This leads to extremely poor cycling in a typical voltage window, whereas 10 ppm water allows cycling with over 95% Coulombic efficiency (Fig. 5b and Supplementary Fig. 9). This demonstrates that at low water concentrations, reaction of a weak acid (HA) with superoxide O2 generated at the cathode is kinetically competitive compared to the diffusion of HA to the sodium surface; that is, some HA sur- vives, even at the 10 ppm level. Its entrapment within the porous cathode may be similar to that of long-lived redox mediators in LiO2 cells18. Passivation of the sodium surface to form a solid- electrolyte interphase undoubtedly assists. In a practical cell, PPTC reactivity at the anode would be eliminated by a protective membrane, which would also prevent dendrite formation. This will be the subject of future studies.

I'm not sure if this is the BD that they were wanting. This article says:

&gt;By isolating its role in the battery's discharge and recharge reactions, Nazar and colleagues were not only able to boost the battery's capacity, they achieved a near-perfect recharge of the cell. ~~If they had success recharging I would have expected that to show up in Nature abstract or title as that's a BFD.~~

~~A passing comment by the journalist makes me a bit skeptical.~~

I misread one of the figures, they were recharging the cell. [deleted] [deleted] The article talks about the recharging of the sodium oxygen battery.
The proton phase catalyst works with NaO2, but not the peroxide (Na2O2). With sodium that's okay because NaO2 is stable in it's crystal structure and dissociates readily (part of the recharge process). The sodium battery recharges very efficiently.

What you may mean is that the lithium oxygen battery hasn't been recharged, which is misleading. Lithium ion batteries work already, but LiO2 is unstable, and breaks down to Li2O2. The catalyst type that the study uses can only work on LiO2. So they can use the catalyst for discharging the battery (formation of LiO2 from elemental Li) but that will degrade to Li2O2, and the catalyst can't be used to get back to elemental Li (recharging the battery) because the reaction mechanism is entirely different.

So no, the catalyst can't be used to recharge the lithium oxygen battery, but the sodium oxygen battery *has* been recharged, and it works well. The sodium oxygen battery is just less space efficient than the lithium oxygen battery (mostly due to sodium being a larger element). A battery of similar size wouldn't deliver the same power. That's a huge drawback to sodium oxygen batteries, which is why they're currently only used for research purposes (since lithium and sodium are very similar alkali metals).

The article also mentions that this discovery (the catalyst and reaction mechanism it allows) can make the sodium oxygen battery a feasible option for large scale energy storage. Sodium is MUCH more available than lithium too, making it much cheaper. I just started understanding this was unique to sodium and thankfully someone has sent me a copy of the Nature article. You can see the progression of my understanding and a couple edits in the comment thread below this one.

eta: I've never worked with sodium so I was approaching this from other metal-air experience. This NaO2 stability seems to be the real trick to it. I'm not a sodium or air electrode guy but I'm working on lithium stuff right now for my phd and after looking at the nature article I think lichlord hit the nail on the head. "They haven't recharged it yet." Having a scientific realization is a dime a dozen especially with no practical solution. The holy grail would have been making the thing work. As far as I remember finding a place to store the sodium or preventing sodium dendrites would have been more revolutionary. I'd like a sodium person to explain why this got published in nature. Maybe I'm missing something.  &gt; The holy grail would have been making the thing work.

The title says it could pave the way for the so-called holy grail of electrochemical energy storage. It's calling this method, the desired end result, the holy grail...not their finding specifically. I'm not super excited by what they've done unless there's some great explanation for how something works buried in the paper I can't see. &gt; they achieved a near-perfect recharge of the cell.

That would seem to indicate they did recharge the cell, no? As /u/lichlord points out, that was the journalist's words, not the scientists'.  It should not be read in a technical manner. Sure it's a press release.  But it is a significant result in the Basic Science of battery chemistry.  The SCIENCE reddit should not poo-poo something just because it is not yet an engineering and manufacturing success.  The engineering and manufacturing successes will be posted in the Technology subreddit. The way I read this and other articles about the paper, there is a catalyst they do not mention, and "the proton phase catalyst transfers the newly formed sodium superoxide (NaO2) entities to solution where they nucleate into well-defined nanocrystals to grow the discharge product as micron-sized cubes. The dimensions of the initially formed NaO2 are critical" Not having the catalyst reduces efficiency. Also, the stable version NaO2 would not translate to lithium batteries since LiO2 is not stable, Li2O2 is and the catalyst does not work for that. (this seemed like a better article http://www.greencarcongress.com/2015/05/20150528-waterloo.html) 

Here is a link to order the article - http://www.nature.com/nchem/journal/v7/n6/full/nchem.2260.html

 Hi! As an author on the above mentioned paper (long time lurker of reddit...never had an account, but this made me get one!), I can tell you that this research is only one step towards the realization of metal-O2 batteries as commercial products. This research has demonstrated the importance of a phase transfer catalyst to facilitate the Na-O2 chemistry. There are still MANY issues of metal-O2 batteries, especially with regards to electrolyte decomposition as a result of the highly reactive environment the cell components are subject too. This is why metal-O2 batteries have difficulty achieving numerous cycles compared to current commercial batteries such as Li-ion. So while this research demonstrates the necessity of a proton phase transfer catalyst to facilitate the cell discharge/charge (and that is not to say other types of phase transfer catalysts don't exist), long term stability of these metal-O2 batteries that is necessary for commercialization is a major problem, and a solution to that issues is what I believe to be the holy-grail of metal-O2 batteries.  If you send [a message to the mods](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fscience&amp;subject=&amp;message=) with proof you are an author, we can get you set up with author flair. Not OP, but on the topic...I tried sending a message to the mods to get flair and never heard back. Should I try again or did I do something incorrectly? You should send it again.  It probably just slipped through the cracks in modmail, and it doesn't have a search function so we can't easily look it up. [deleted] Na-O batteries would save a lot of raw material troubles.  Both elements are pretty common.  So yeah, holy grail can apply if the claims are just. I thought the "holy grail" they mentioned was the Li-O battery? No, because lithium is much harder to come by than sodium.  That's what DrDisaster means by

&gt; raw material troubles. I dunno the article seems to be talking about Li-O.
&gt;Understanding how sodium-oxygen batteries work has implications for developing the more powerful lithium-oxygen battery, which has been seen as the holy grail of electrochemical energy storage. Can I ask a silly question?

Na...in its pure form isn't happy around any sort of moisture (if I recall the Na creates H2 from H2O).  And this battery creates pure O2 when it discharges.  From this mindset, you would either have to have a closed system (when the battery discharges it pulls the O2 out of the battery into a separate tank for storage) and then would reverse the process by pumping O2 back in during "recharge".  Or you would have an open system which would have to have nearly 99.999% efficiency in pulling out moisture from the air intake.

A leak of any moisture would create H2 gas which when stored under pressure with O2 makes for wonderful party favors.  Of course, the amount would be small unless there was a large moisture leak somewhere.  Am I off base on this assessment?

/engineer, thinking that any large amount of something in the alkali metals in its pure form is something I wouldn't want near my....country. [deleted] [deleted] The title is "so-called" holy grail, so I feel like they're distancing themselves slightly from actually calling it a holy grail, but I see your point.

I mostly just tried to take the title/summary from the article without altering it too much on my own. Putting "so-called" in front of an overused hyperbolic phrase doesn't make it any less so. I don't understand why people are hung up on them referring to it as the so-called holy grail of electrochemical storage. They aren't calling their specific finding the holy grail...they are calling what they are striving for the holy grail. 

This should be simple to figure out.

Battery experts, is this method (even in theory) considered a holy grail of this subject or not? Wikipedia tells me that "A lithium-air battery has an energy density (per kilogram) comparable to gasoline". So yes, that could absolutely be considered a holy grail,  beating out the best existing batteries by an order of magnitude. The holy grail would be a sodium-oxygen battery that can draw its resources from our body, therefore powering bionic tech with 10x our own strength and stamina.

I can be The Winter Soldier. Plus it would help you burn more calories, so it could help you out on a diet.. Or just enable us to finally eat as much as we want! and no more worries the doctor putting you on a low-salt diet! I'm afraid you would quickly end up terribly dehydrated and asphyxiated. Just have it monitor your blood levels for water and sodium content as it draws, and have it stop at a certain threshold. There are already devices that do those measurements in real time. But then if you want more power you'd have to consume more sodium laden food. and drink more water. At that point you might as well just buy sodium and water for the prosthetic itself. Probably could store quite a bit in there.  What kind of device does these types of measurement and where do you get it? I'm having a hard time searching for this.  [deleted] http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/05/150527151201.htm

The summary of the linked article is almost word for word the title of this post. I'm not saying you're wrong about the use of hyperbolic language, personally I agree with you, but the language definitely appears in the article. I hate the sensationalist verbiage that gets used in so much reporting these days :-/ Yeah, you're not wrong there. I was simply comparing the content of the titles... I guess my angle was to point out the journalist didn't even go with the 'click-baity' headline and we still end up with one :-( 

Someday we shall be free and expectations will be tempered right out of the gate! Remember the days when news articles had meaningful titles and scientific journals didn't have to sensationalize all their information just to get a second glance? 

Pepperidge Farm remembers. Journal article:  http://www.nature.com/nchem/journal/v7/n6/full/nchem.2260.html Thanks for the article. This is probably one of the better battery related articles on reddit (althought I think I saw an okay one a few days ago too, but overall been better than some battery articles I saw months ago). Professor Nazar's a pretty credible author on my list. I need this NaO!

But sseriously, sorting out the peroxo- oxide- cycle is fairly big news, the holy grail it is not. If it's commecialisable, maybe but personally I'm a bit suspicious of gas electrodes for the O source. Limits their applicability.
 Someone tell me,  why shouldn't I be excited about this? Lab proven ~= market feasibility. I'm actually at the Energy Storage Association's annual conference right now. The keynote speaker, Jigar Shah (huge in the solar industry and energy finance) last night said verbatim: "PhDs come with a new battery chemistry and ask me for $50 million. And I say, gosh, they gave you a PhD?"

Even if you have something that works in lab, you still have three general barriers to becoming a major technological breakthrough:
1. Technology proven at scale
2. Project finance lined up
3. OEM support

If you manage to nail these three things, you better hope that you can hit the $30-60/kWh (or better if you're a "breakthrough/revolutionary" tech) threshold to be competitive in the Energy Storage market. If it's real: 

1.) Big Idiocy is against technology which upsets the status quo.

2.) Probably a huge initial investment, like everything else that could save the world.

3.) If it's not possible to make it small enough, then it won't really be that helpful. Miniaturization counts for a lot more than people realize. Who wants to carry around a huge salt-water backpack battery? &gt; Who wants to carry around a huge salt-water backpack battery?

Can it power my bionic legs? 