Saw him live about 10 years ago.  Still had it, man.

Half-way through the show, he raises his glass of beer and tells everyone to  chug theirs together with him.  After he finishes, he laughs and says, "that was apple juice.  I'm diabetic and can't drink beer."

RIP The King

EDIT: Formatting I'd have thought Apple juice would be worse than beer for a diabetic? He's hardcore Apple core, apparently. He fooled them twice - it was whiskey. Acting.  Alcohol fucks up your blood sugar pretty good. Part of what causes the hangover My Mum's a type-2 Insulin dependant diabetic, she uses (actual) juice to re-establish low blood-sugar levels... she won't even touch alcohol unless it's like 1 glass of champagne at Christmas time. AFAIK having low blood sugar if far more dangerous for diabetics than too high, in the short term at least. When it's too low they can appear very drunk to the observer, and have seizures and whatnot.

edit: not a doctor, learned that in a first aid course You're 100% right. While high blood sugars are not deadly in the short term, acute hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) can often times be a medical emergency. Low blood sugar is more likely to kill you now, high blood sugar more likely to kill you eventually.  And normal blood sugar will also eventually lead to death. That's adorable! The last of the Three Kings. 

RIP BB
 At least we still have Chuck Berry! I think you mean his cousin, Marvin Berry. I hear he has that new sound. Your kids are going to love it.  Look, Marvin, you gotta play. See, that's where they kiss for the first time on the dance floor. And if there's no music, they can't dance. If they can't dance, they can't kiss. If they can't kiss they can't fall in love, and I'm history.  That sounds heavy.  There's that word again. "Heavy." Why are things so heavy in the future? Is there a problem with the Earth's gravitational pull?  I am very fortunate to have seen BB King 5 times.  My most favorite memory will always be seeing him in 2014.  Lots of reports about how bad his shows were.  He talked for the first 15 minutes without playing a note.  His band leader whispered in his ear probably to tell him to play something.  But he told stories of his life and joked with the crowd.  We had front row seats.  He spoke to me and my wife.  Told me, "You look like you have a kind soul".  His whole life he always seemed to play a song with every emotion he could muster.  He loved music more than anything else in this world.  Sorry for my ramble.  We have lost an absolute legend.  How Blue Can You Get that the Thrill Is Gone? So glad I got to see him play when he was in his 60's. 

We chased after his bus yelling "B.B! B.B.!" like silly groupies and he waved out the window at us with a big grin on his face.

RIP B.B. That's the sort of thing I can imagine every musician lives for.  I know I would love grundyhippies chasing me I got to see him perform a couple of years ago and he was still charming the ladies like a man a quarter of his age! He had the biggest grin on his face and you could tell that he was living life to the fullest. That's how I'm envisioning his last moments on this Earth. Waving to us all, with that big grin on his face on the way to his next big show. RIP B.B. While playing on his guitar.  &gt;While playing on his guitar.

While strapped to the front of a V8 headed toward Valhalla.  Yes, strapped to a giant bottle of tomato juice... Nah, he's old school. He goes for the cans.  WHAT A LOVELY DAY [deleted] I saw him and his band when he came through my home town about 10 years ago. My friend got hold of tickets somehow and we sat 4 rows back. His brother and friends had to sit WAYY further back. 

It was cool as shit!  When I saw him in Vancouver a few years back (I forget when) half of his set was just about the most amazing musical experience I have had at a concert. Fans of all ages, from 9 year olds to 90 year olds dancing in the aisle. 

The other half was him telling stories of his youth and his experiences traveling and playing music. He would raise his voice up in pitch and mimic the women calling after him,  "B.B! Oh B.B!". He would carry on til he would chastise himself and told us his agent would never let him hear the end of this.  It was a one of a kind concert experience.

RIP B.B

Edited: Forgot a word Good memory. I was afraid when he went into hospice, so we all sort of knew it was coming ["Thrill is Gone"  from 1993.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4fk2prKnYnI)

He's got his groove on here.  It is so cool.  The guitar is so smooth.  His voice is so nasty in a smooth way.  He is wearing the sweat in a 'its' nothing way'.  He brings the audience to an orgasm in a nonchalant way.

amazing. That was amazing and beautiful to watch. The way he feels when he plays music is so real.  That's improv musician sweat. I've played quite a few shows and everyone only notices once they're backstage. That glisten, the closed eyes when you're in a great pocket... One of the little things that makes it real. My favorite version by far. I have always admired how SRV/John Mayer play with a certain groove. I had never heard BB with that same kind of groove until I heard this version. Then it hit me, JM and SRV got it from him =D https://youtu.be/-i6BdmIiilo 
Sweet Sixteen - Live in Kinshasha 
Never ceases to give me goose pimples First studio album: 1957

Last studio album: 2008

Holy shit [First Recording: 1949](https://youtu.be/MLI5KxNCcuM) Yeah, I saw he had some singles released beforehand as that was more the style then. But still, 42 full length albums across that time span is insane. Lucille should go into the Smithsonian. B.B. was a national treasure and what better way to honor him than by putting his iconic companion in a national museum as a piece of our shared history.  That sounds about right. Please not in a House of Blues somewhere... There have actually been many "Lucille" guitars that BB owned and played over the years. I have no idea if the original guitar that earned it's name in 1949 is still around, but if it is, then I definitely agree with you. "Everybody wants to go to Heaven, but no one wants to die to get there!"

-BB I'd like to add my favorite BB quote. 

"Good lord didn't give me the ability to play and sing at the same time." I thought that was [Albert King?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lb-EJEWRxlM) Either way, sad day.  Holy fuck.

I saw BB in 2009.  Despite being in his 80s and seated the whole concert, you could tell there was nothing he'd rather be doing than sitting there and performing.  He'd tell stories to the audience, poke fun at his age, and even did a blues number on Viagra and Cialis.  He was so energetic I was still surprised he died because he was so full of life on stage.  The world lost an amazing performer and human being today. Saw him at the mountain winery in Silicon Valley around the same, a great musician, and a better entertainer. Wove stories and experiences into songs and really talked about what each song meant before playing it. Great show Built his house like a hotel, had 13 children from 13 women, and played almost a show day for 40+ years. A true man of the road.  I saw him last in '05 but I was with older scholars in terms of even my own age.

One told me "B.B.? You should dream about living so long that you could dream about fucking the women he's forgotten." He probably wasn't wrong.

Nor is *that* why I remember the King but I bet it would make him chuckle if he were still here. Dirty old bastard that he always was! Bad News: A music icon is dead.

Good News: He made it to 89. How many music icons can we say that about?

Greater News: We're about to see a lot of dope tributes come out.


Possibly the worst news: We're about to see a lot of terrible tributes come out. not to mention doing it with diabetes. [deleted] As Big Joe Williams once said "I went down to the doctor man, I told him I could't see my penis. He said don't eat nothing sweet, you've got the sugar diabetes."
- Sugar Diabetes Blues That's beautiful. well shit. first abe vigoda and now BB King. Fuck off. Abe can't die. &gt; abe vigoda

http://www.abevigoda.com/ I wish he would randomly appear on Conan again like he used to.

That's always how I made sure he was alive. He came out on stage dressed as a wombat and danced at a phish show a few years ago. 

Edit - [Link to video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q-lmVFLeTbM) Holy shit. Dude's nearing 100. Hope he makes it. Today was B.B.

Last week was Ben E.

Knowing the Rule of 3's, if I was Stephen, I would be a little nervous this week. Larry feeds off of the souls of children, so it won't be him.  Good news: suffering is over. End of life can be a bitch, any time I hear about hospice etc it's really depressing. I'm actually happy to hear this news because it was already clear he was dying. Don't be depressed when you hear about hospice.  Hospice is about comfort at the end of a rough struggle, and the caregivers involved are beautiful people committed to making that time as peaceful and dignified as it possibly can be for both the patient and their family.  The end is always going to come, no matter what.  Hospice makes that final stretch a little easier to travel. &gt;beautiful people

There goes my hopes for my future career

 I'm sure you could be the back room receptionist. Is there a casting couch for this back room position?  _ We only hire *beautiful people* here!  I've had multiple grandparents in that situation near the end and literally everyone involved was the nicest person ever. Seemed like they were generally hated by the people they were taking care of but you know...old people  Eh, you know, nobody wants to be in a care home. No matter how nice everyone is, a lot of people will be feeling frustrated at having lost their freedom, some might feel like a burden, some might be bitter that their family has put them in a home and/or rarely visit.

Maybe they have nothing really going on in their lives anymore or don't like the pace and changes in the world around them, without the ability to directly influence it.

Being old and living in care is shitty, no matter how good the care is. There will be more dope tributes than terrible ones. All those fantastic guitarists have already been honoring him for years at crossroads guitar festivals. His style was loved by so many great musicians; we're going hear great stories and great music in his honor.  &gt;There will be more dope tributes than terrible ones

[Sturgeon begs to differ.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sturgeon%27s_law) Justin Bieber with a Santana solo. I'm calling it now. Please stop giving them ideas. Not looking forward to the feigned sadness from young news reporters who have no connection to this story. Will someone please make a compilation of news reporters saying, "The thrill...is gone."  89 is the new 27. Paramore: a tribute to B.B. King Kidz Bop: a tribute to B.B King Bieber King: A Tribute  ICP: a tribute to B.B. King. Doing a quick google search, there are actually more musicians alive in their 80's than I thought. Some notables:

Chuck Berry - 88
Fats Domino - 87
Loretta Lynn - 83
Willie Nelson -82
Little Richard - 82
Leonard Cohen - 80
Keith Richards - Immortal

http://www.ihopeidiebeforeigetold.com/oldest-living-rock-stars.php
 I don't know that words can do him justice. Even if you aren't a blues fan, his influence can't be overstated. So many great musicians and bands learned and mimicked him. 

A legend in every sense of the word. He'll be missed. I only wish I had been able to see him play live. 

EDIT: spelling.  He played once I my town and I regret not having a job at that time.  He played a block from my house and I regret having a job at the time, because I couldn't take the night off. Just about every genre of music that uses a guitar owes something to BB.  You mean it can't be overstated.  Oops. Yes.  Im so shocked right now. Never ever will I hve the chance to hear him say "ARE YOU HAVING A LITTLE FUN?!" in a way only his old, darkened voice can say. 

Not only he died, as did Lucille.  Oh god. That poor girl. I hope she winds up in tender, loving hands. None can replace her life partner, but I can only hope she is treated with none but the utmost respect. She gonna get her ass thrown in a museum. No one will ever play her again.

She dies with her lover. In true Blues fashion. She's going to mourn him a long, long time.  I'd hope so, I can see gibson buying it and making a limited run of exact replicas. Gibson's been making "Lucille" style guitars for a while, even discounting that Lucille was originally just an ES-355. They could always release something similar to the George Harrison Duo Jet replicas Gretch made; they all had the same chips, cracks, and even fingerprints as George's guitar.  There have been dozens of Lucilles. He never kept the same guitar for long. He'd give them away to friends, fans, museums. There's one hanging in every BB King Blues Club in the world. On top of this the original Lucille was a standard Gibson. The Lucille models he's played since 1980 are his signature Gibson without F-holes in them.  As a guitar player, this comment got me the most. 
Poor girl lost her lover. :( As a Mississippian, he will be sorely missed by the whole state. The blues world sheds a tear for him today.  The last of the Three Kings is gone :( Excuse my lack of knowledge, who were the other two? Freddie King and Albert King  Don and Burger Feeling it in Memphis, too.  Memphis: the place everybody thinks Mississippi blues musicians are from. Memphis: the place Mississippi blues musicians escape to - because hey; at least it isn't Mississippi.  He traveled the world spreading the gospel of the blues, entertaining millions. He had the respect of all his peers. His shows were just fantastic with his playing and his tight band, so damn good. He'll be missed by everyone  who heard him and thought "I wish I could play like that."   Probably one of the best things to ever originate in this state Aside from Elvis, it's Kermit the Frog all the way. Now I've got the blues.

BB, you sir, will be missed. I don't say this often, but it's days like today that I'm glad I live in Memphis. Being a friday, tonight I'm going to go down to Beale st., have a drink and listen to blues all night in BB Kings own club. I can think of no better way to spend the night.  I imagine it will be a packed house tonight! I'll be raising a glass with you all the way in Copenhagen. When I was 11 years old my uncle gave me a 1972 fender fat strat. The pick guard was stained yellow and the paint was chipping off everywhere. It was heavy as a fucking anvil and could easily throw off my balance is it swayed any direction to quickly. I walked into my first lesson Id ever take with a old family friend and founder of speedster amps Corey wilds. It was 1999. On my first day he said to me "I know you wanna learn all this heavy metal and rock music and I'll teach you that but you have to answer one question for me. If you had to pick would you rather learn to play jazz or the blues?" Well dammit I just wanted to play antichrist superstar and the downward spiral in their entirety so I just gave him an answer I thought he would want to hear, i squeaked out "the blues". By 21 I had been on tour a number of times with my own bands and several others. At 11 years old I was learning my own personalized "intro to the blues" by learning licks like the lead line to "have a drink on me" by acdc. By the time I was 12 I was in love. I was going home from school and learning licks by muddy waters and b.b. King like the apocalypse was imminent and our worlds only defense was this skinny white kid from Tacoma Washington whaling the blues at it. To this day I have no idea what would have happened if I had said jazz. What I do know is that day I opened so many doors I never would have otherwise because I said blues. BB was one of my earliest inspirations. Sadly I was never privileged to see most of my inspirations play as I was to young. I got to see BB several times. I've known a lot of musicians in my life but to see a legend like that play was an honor and I mean that in the most sincere way. One of the last living trail blazers that made my life possible is gone.  Thank you BB for introducing me to the first and most true love I have ever known. The blues.    [deleted] The thrill is gone, man.  My favorite.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iUaevnP1LLg [His favorite.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LWLAAzOBoBI) Starts at 1 minute 20 seconds or so. 

[*Lyrics, from AZ Lyrics.*](http://www.azlyrics.com/lyrics/bbking/howbluecanyouget.html)

**"How Blue Can You Get?"**

I've been down hearted baby 

ever since the day we met 

I said I've been down hearted baby 

ever since the day we met 

our love is nothing but the blues, woman

baby, how blue can you get? 

.

You're evil when I'm with you, baby 

and you're jealous when we're apart 

I said You're evil when I'm with you, baby 

and you're jealous when we're apart 

how blue can you get baby 

the answer is right here in my heart 

.

I gave you a brand new Ford 

But you said: I want a Cadillac 

I bought you a ten dollar dinner 

and you said: thanks for the snack 

I let you live in my pent house 

you said it just a shack 

I gave seven children 

and now you wanna give them back 

I said I've been down hearted baby 

ever since the day we met 

our love is nothing but the blues 

baby, how blue can you get?

***EDIT: [Slate agrees.](http://www.slate.com/articles/arts/culturebox/2015/05/bb_king_dead_at_89_remembering_live_at_the_regal_s_three_song_medley_the.html?wpsrc=sh_all_dt_fb_ru) Here's [their video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8TMO4mnV4oI)***  That was amazing. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BPlsqo2bk2M&amp;hd=1 That was the song that introduced me to BB. Suddenly sounds much more poignant now. As a Dead Head I feel compelled to share a Garcia/Grisman tribute. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EP31w_lkfX0

B.B. played that song the best, but it is awesome that other music icons tried to do the same with it with their own flavor. I really like how Garcia and Grisman added kind of an upbeat Spanish flavor to it.  Growing up with a Dead Head dad, i got the opportunity to listen to them a lot and any time i hear them i think of pops. BB King Being one of my biggest influences this song hits home man thanks for sharing. Never seen this before that's awesome! Love the dead, wish I could make it to the Farewell shows. Speaking of which you should youtube Phish doing the thrill is gone with BB back in 2003, pretty sweet performance If you like Trey or Phish.

Peace.
 First Phish show and first and only time seeing BB King.

RIP true legend. But Lucille lives forever... Here's the studio recorded version, sounds so clean, amazing song : 
[The Thrill Is Gone](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BXsusJ787sU) This song has never hit home as hard as right this moment. BB King is gone, yes. But waking up after having a fight with my lady and thinking about how 5 1/2 years ago things were so much different than they are now, it just hurts to come to the realization that things will never go back to the way they were.  The legend lives on. Damn. I saw B.B. King live last year and it was the saddest show I've ever been to. His family claims he was being abused and manipulated by his manager, and what I saw that night attests to that. He was confused and seemed to have dementia. He couldn't get through a song, couldn't play more than a few bars, and the audience began to get restless and would even boo him. (Who boos B.B. King? Show some respect). He should have been at home, living out his twilight years, not dragged out on stage where he obviously didn't even know where he was.

But every so often he would get that old spark back. You could see the old B.B. King surfacing. He'd tell a joke. He sang "You are my sunshine." You could see that he was an amazing performer.  

RIP B.B. King. I hope you are truly at peace. Chuck Berry performs monthly in St. Louis (though he's stopped playing for the first time in 20 years, hopefully just temporarily). I've seen him 4 or 5 times. He's 89. Sometimes he puts on a great show, and sometimes it's clear he's not having a good night. One show, even though he was having a good night, he told someone who requested Johnny B. Goode he'd already played that. Everyone kind of started to yell it, and he was like "didn't I already play that tonight?" His son and daughter (who are extremely talented) perform with him, they carry the show if they need to. He turned and looked at his daughter and she was kind of laughing and shaking her head. "Oh, I thought I played it already. Well shit, y'all, I'm 88! What do you expect?" He laughed and started singing. It was great.  This brings a tear to my eye. I hope he found peace in the end. That's appalling. Dude worked his ass off for so goddamn long, he deserved way better than that. Fuck, man. Tragic. This is the reason I didn't go to see him in the last few years. If you read the reviews of shows a lot of people have been saying for a few years now that the shows were beginning to get like that.

Comments about him only actually playing a few songs and spending ages talking instead; 15 minute renditions of Your Are My Sunshine.

He's so old and obviously shouldn't have been performing still (for whatever reason  very sad if his mental state was being abused). His music will never die. Absolutely. I'm not sure if anyone has had so profound an effect on blues guitar as BB King. Maybe SRV, but BB poured the concrete for all that came after him. Robert Johnson  I had the pleasure of seeing BB King at the Telluride Blues and Brews festival, it was standing room only and I was on the second or third row.  He must have been 30 feet away from me.  It was an excellent concert.

I remember at one particular moment he stopped the show and pointed out into the crowd to a 20 something woman who was on a guys shoulders at maybe row 20.  She was well endowed and was wearing a string bikini, swaying back and forth suggestively to the music.

"Now now.. young lady you need to stop that or you are going to give this old man a heart attack."

The young woman smiled suggestively as the entire crowd suddenly had her focus.  And at that point she pulled off her top and her womanhood spilled out.

BB King's mouth just gaped open, his eyes rolled back in his head and he sat back in his chair.  His whole band and the entire crowd erupted in reaction.  He tried to stammer a few words at her but only broken English could come out.

She put her top back on, blew him a kiss, and the show went on.

Rest well BB. My dad was there and told me this story! Haha.  Wow.... A world without BB King style bends.

BB King is one of the greatest guitar player of all time. A true master of the blues. I've played guitar for ten years, and you can learn pretty much anything, from shredding insanely fast to playing flashy, but soul is something you are born with. Every note BB played dripped with purpose. I would argue that BB was one of those guys that could say anything with three notes.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dOAQd3JK0sc  Nobody could nail you in the soul with a single note like BB. Period.  He could say more in three notes than 99% of other guitar players could in a whole song. [deleted] That's a great memory. I'd kill to live half the life he did. I hope we see a ton of tributes from various bands and artists giving respect. RIP! Two legends gone, in such a short period of time. RIP.  Who is the other one? B.B. King counts as 2 Lucille... Ben E King So we've lost both BE King and BB King?

This is certainly bad news for BC King. Not to mention BD. BA King was too badass to go down so easily. Blues boys tune will always be my favorite 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Ny5ajCn0xw He once told me that he hated being 77 becuase once you hit 77 you can't lie about your age like you could at 76. At 76   you can tell people you are 67 and no one will question you becuase you are old. Going to miss that guy Now I've got the blues. The soulfullest guitar man there ever was. Rest in peace B.B. My mother loved B.B. King, he was her favorite musician. When I was 3 she took me to see him at City Stages in Birmingham, Al. and had me sitting on my dads shoulders so I could see everything on stage. I don't remember it but we have pictures and she said I was having the time of my life dancing to every song that played. May 18, 2014 my mother passed away and it hit me really hard. Few months go by and Robin Williams (her favorite actor) passes away and then that hit me hard. The comfort that I have now is that, if the heaven my mother believed in exists, I like to imagine she is happy as shit hanging out with her two favorite entertainers. 

Rest in peace mom, Mr. Williams and Mr. King. I had the honor of producing a project for Buddy Guy and BB King a couple years back, the song seems appropriate to share today. 
(https://youtu.be/emyt-agLE_s) One of the first people I ever saw live. Opened me up to a whole new world of music to be interested in. Knew it was coming for a while now really, but it still sucks. I saw him in 1985, the tickets were my 18th birthday present at a time when my mother and I barely had two nickels to rub together and pretend we had a dime.  And I am not exaggerating when I say that, in any time between then and this minute, if the shit runs bad in the world, and people are just unrelenting bastards, I can at least pull the memory of that show back into focus and know that we can all just drop the bullshit and let beauty, art, and music pull us out of our fucked up heads for at least a little bit of time, every now and then.  That's what will save us in the end.  If we let it.  
    And the man could close a show like no other.  Let's close with this, from the man himself.  RIP Riley Blues Boy King.  

http://youtu.be/77PWmQw6I3A I will always remember getting to play one of his guitars at the Hard Rock London. (Circa 2004)[https://scontent-atl.xx.fbcdn.net/hphotos-xfp1/t31.0-8/331186_313652588686038_41166294_o.jpg] This is why you must attend the concerts of the aging stars.

I went to two Stevie Wonder concerts in the past 6 months. He's getting up there in the years, and I didn't want to be one of those folks going "I wish I saw him when he was still alive..." I hope he is buried with Lucille. He brought so much joy to others with his music--even if it's blues, there's a joy in experiencing something truly transcendent.  Not personally my genre of music but I think everyone can recognize and appreciate his talent and legend. A true influence on music, RIP. Im sad I'm not. Sure, it sucks that he died, but he had almost 90 years on this planet. Celebrate his life, learn one of his songs if you play. If you don't, pick up one of his albums. Some of the greatest blues you'll every hear. yeah i know

but i can still be kind of sad, you know? its always weird listening to someone whose dead when you think about it got the blues? It's not unexpected, but that doesn't lessen the tragedy in the slightest.  BB was among the last of the classic blues singers, and easily among the greatest.  To say that he's left his mark on my Memphis is to greatly undersell the man.  May he rest in peace.  I think he's earned that much. Long live the King. I started playing guitar when I was 16. At first I was just into learning  shit like Blink 182 and Nirvana. When I really starting getting into it after about the first year, listening to BB King blew me away and opened the gates for so much more. His style and music was so palatable and clean, but gave me the base to find more and learn more.  When I was a sophomore in college my roommates and I  were grilling burgers and getting high. We heard last minute that B.B. King was playing that night. I'm glad we got our asses up and saw him in person. What a show. B.B. King at his Peak:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LWLAAzOBoBI Fuck yeah dude, nothing his beats his live tone circa 70's. That glass vibrato sounding all fat and tubey. Cook County Jail will always be my fave but this is great shit.  You can be sure that Eric Clapton will do the thrill is gone at the next crossroads. As someone who never got into the blues all that much I still tear up when I hear him sampled on 
[Primitive Radio Gods - Standing Outside A Broken Phone Booth With Money In My Hand](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4XJxFAoiWSY) Mississippi Mourns  This will probably be buried but I'd like to share anyway. I went to a small school and the summer after my 8th grade year our class took a trip to tour the Washington D.C. area to see first hand all the things we had been learning about. We were on a layover in St. Louis when my history teacher grabs a small group of us that happened to be close by and says follow me right now. He takes us over to one of those golf carts with a flat bed that had a large black man sitting in the passenger seat. Our teacher introduced himself, told the man about our trip and said he couldn't pass up saying hello and introducing a few of his kids to an american legend. The man got up from the cart with a smile on his face, walked to each of us in turn, shook our hands and said "I be B.B., who be you?" He still never made his move too soon. The legend and thrill may be gone, but his music and the impact it made on every genre still remains. There's no greater honor in the music world than that. I can vividly remember seeing BB king live when I was 14, and it had a tremendous influence on my perception of guitar playing. I had never experienced so much personality and emotion from such few notes. It gave me a window into playing the blues, which led me down a path to funk as well. He inadvertently steered me away from drugs and crime by pushing me into music, with a new found curiosity and drive. 

Sad times.  The thrill will *never* be gone. I live in the Mississippi delta and he was supposed to have a homecoming concert here next weekend!
That man is a god around here. I live right next to the BB King museum. He will be sorely missed.  I graduated from a high school best known as MSMS (Mississippi School of Mathematics and Science). I had a fair amount of garnered sway in my senior year, and lobbied to get B.B. King to be our graduation speaker. It actually was supported by a fair amount of my class--not something easily obtained--but was ultimately shot down by our administration as Mr. King was deemed by them as "Not Cultured Enough".

Yeah, not making that up. Of course, we all know "Not Cultured Enough" meant black dude from the delta. Because Mr. King had plenty of culture to anyone more intelligent than a cucumber.

Instead, we got Chip Pickering. A corrupt man from a corrupt family who found himself the butt of a Borat scene.The type of guy that fights a soccer coach. A man whose dirty laundry includes a lawsuit involving his cheating on his wife. A man who threw away his wife, 5 children, and his political career for a little leg.

And most importantly, someone a whole hell of a lot more "cultured" than B.B. King.

This rube knew nothing about the very blues Mr. King sang of that many of us felt at MSMS over our time there...those of us with our eyes open, anyway.

So, I remain bitter and hold true to my blues as I rightly, validly, and flauntingly display my lack of "culture".

And as for the more cultured folks...those of you who disparagingly time and again have held down people like myself and Mr. King, those of you who truly perceive without irony people like him as being lesser in any capacity than yourself...well, that very word, that word that starts with an N? Take heart in knowing that history will burn that very word in scarlet on your cheek for all eternity.

Chip Pickering? You're already forgotten. B.B. King? You will be exalted through history.

You know history, right?

The recording of CULTURE passed through time ad infinitum.

Guess you had enough culture after all, B.B. The King will always wear the crown. Rest easy.  Grateful I had the chance to see him live at Bonaroo back in 08' RIP to a real Blues Brother The man lived to 89, a long beautiful life for the King. Play the blues from above for an eternity my brother My parents love to tell a story about when my mom was pregnant with me ('87) and they went to see BB live in Akron, OH. They had access to meet him after the show and as soon as my mom walked in the room he saw she was pregnant and insisted that she take his seat to get off of her feet. That said, I've been listening to his music my whole life. RIP BB.  A beautiful life that he lived. He overcame and inspired, challenged and won.  Rest in power BB King! For you know, that The Blues are eternal. Even if the blues isn't your prefered musical choice, you can't deny that he was one of the greats in music.

RIP B.B. A man passes to legend. I used to work for a small time newspaper when I was in college and was graced with the opportunity to interview a musical legend named Rick Darnell. I had never heard of the man before, and quite frankly couldn't recognize the magnitude of his impact on musical history at the time. 

I went into the interview pretty much cold, with minimal background information on the man. I knew that he was a long time blues musician and had owned a local radio station for a number of years. However I had no idea that he was responsible for writing one of the most iconic Blues songs ever in "The Thrill is Gone". 

Now me being the ignorant ass that I was/am didn't understand that he had essentially crafted a song that would define Blues music not just within America's borders, but also act as the defining song in a soundtrack of Americana in many other nations around the world.

Instead all I saw was a humble, generous, grateful, ambitious, (even at 77 years old) person. Someone who despite all he went through, loved the creation of music. Someone who even after he lost the ability to play music the way he was born to, (due to an accident that damaged his lips), still found love in crafting music for others to perform, (including Etta James and Maya Angelou).  

He has since passed as well, and while I know that he will never be recognized as the legend that BB King was, I wanted to acknowledge/remember him and his many, accomplishments tonight.

His Favorite Song that he wrote: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ag4NM5tBJaI [deleted] This is all Reddit's fault. Yesterday someone mentioned him as someone that is surprising to hear they're still alive on an AskReddit thread. What a legend. Kept on touring and playing shows right up until the end.  Im thankful that I able to see him live and hear him tell his stories about his adventures around Chicago. 

I'll always remember as the guy who helped me with my stickshift driving.  My father,  in a weird and corny way, told me to shift gears as smooth as B. B. Playing the blues.  While I was learning we listened to a lot of B. B.. It's a weird and corny story but it helped alot.   One of the last of the generation of great blues artists who walked down dirt roads straight from the fields and factories into the recording studio. In their satchels they brought the rhythms and feelings honed by working with the sun shining on your back from sun-up to sundown or the equally long days spent lugging metal to and from machines, as well as the feeling of deep loss, yearning and unbridled joy as music sets you free and lifts you up.
Perhaps a bit heavy on the pathos, but that was what I felt the first time I heard artists like Howlin' Wolf and B.B. King - that and the feeling of my jaw dropping onto my chest. Rest as you will, B.B. BB King played thru Hurricane Bob in August of 1991! In an outdoor amphitheater and not a fuck was given. What a man! Jones Beach, Long Island NY. What a show, what a night! He played w/Etta James and Robert Cray. My only regret? Taking the motorcycle instead of the car.  It was a brutal ride back to Queens. "I had a guitar hanging just about waist high,
And I'm gonna play this thing until the day I die." 

-BB 

RIP, BB.  I had the fortunate opportunity to see The King last summer in Indianola, MS for BB's final home concert.

We sat all day, outside his museum (which is amazing, would recommend to anyone) in the dead-heat of a MS summer listening to local bands, and waiting for him to perform. Finally, around 8:00, he finally took the stage. That was one of the coolest days of my life. Seeing a legend perform his final homecoming show was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, and a truly awesome experience.
I was visiting the museum during the day, and I like to spend a lot of time in museums, reading everything, and really trying to take it all in. My gf and her friends had already walked away, so I was alone. As I am standing there, reading about BB's teenage years, the wall to the exhibit behind me opened up, and out came an entourage of people. In the front, being pushed in a wheelchair was BB himself, within reach of me. As he was pushed by, he smiled and pointed to the life size picture of him when he was around 18 years old. I stood there, stunned. Looked at the picture of him, then back to him and just sort of waved. BB returned a cordial wave and nod, and his followers chatter quickly sweeped him away...
COOLEST MOMENT OF MY LIFE

"Heroes are remembered, but legends never die" 
RIP BB Damn you Achievement Hunter the man never conformed, why should we believe that his family would conform at this point? [This was always my favorite song of his.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DREJ9E1z7xc)

The King is dead.  Long live the King. 
He was at the top of my wish list. 
The Sky is Crying here in Texas, RIP BB.  Bummer I'm gonna go back an have a listen to his Live in Cook County jail. It's one of the greatest live shows in my opinion. RIP BB King, you contribution to music will live on the thrill goes on https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4fk2prKnYnI THis is gonna sound way out there but ..... I got into bed about 4 hours ago wich isnt unusual at all for me and then 3 hours ago i got up completely shocked and sweaty and unable to sleep again ... anyway BB you and Lucille will be missed so much!
 I raise a glass to the Beale St. Blues Boy and his remarkable Lucille.  A king and his queen.  A musician and his muse.  A stalwart and his stone.  A legend and his lady.  A big, black bard and his bluesy, boisterous, beautiful bitch.

She follows him into the night, gracefully, yet always waiting to just orgasmically explode (like a fountain) her furious and melodic wonder upon the masses ...based SOLEY upon the most simplest of his touches.

Tonight we lose many things, but not one so captivating, so righteous, so fucking make you feel good when you're passed out next to an alley dumpster because your tramp of a girlfriend decided her UFC fighting, policy creating, millionaire PhD daredevil, fuckwad astronaut "best friend from work" is better than you.

Miss ya BB.  They should have called you the Beebs or w/e the fuck it is.  It's actually raining outside.  Marry your guitars kids.  Salud. Grew up backstage at the Paul Masson Mountain Winery, Dad produced concerts there. B.B. King played pretty much at least once every summer. He was one of the few musicians that actually talked to me like I was a human being (most people treated me like a dumb kid or ignored me). When I was about 5 or 6 B.B. tried to teach me to play a round of pool with him. 

My Dad also produced his Live in San Quentin album / show which won a Grammy. Sadly I wasn't there for that show given that it did take place in a prison.

My favorite B.B. King memory was seeing him and Carlos Santana play a show together in Oakland back in the 90's. 

He was truly an awesome person and a phenomenal musician.  This is indeed a sad day. I can't describe how his music helped me through some of my darker days. Rest in peace B.B.  I'm absolutely gutted about this. I saw him play a couple of years ago and it was the best damn music I've heard in my life. What a legend.  That was a nice montage to go along with the song to send off Letterman.  It was, and I was fine until they had that slightly longer shot of Warren Zevon, who I really wish could have been here for Dave's last show.  Yeah that busted me up too. I know Dave wishes the same... That performance of Roland was probably the greatest musical performance of the late show, for me. Just edging out when Dave came back from his quadruple bypass, and asked the Foo Fighters to play Everlong. Both gave me strong emotional reactions. &gt; Warren Zevon

I am curious who this is/their relation to the show cause I see it mentioned a lot but I am not entirely sure, I see it says they were a musician so did they like make music for the show or something? (I have never watched letterman)

Sorry if this is a stupid question! Warren Zevon was a musician who made dry humorous music. You may have heard "Werewolves of London" Which is probably his biggest hit, but he had quite a few other successful songs. He died over 10 years ago of lung cancer. His final album he wrote after his diagnosis and is essentially his own eulogy to his fans. His songs had a very similar feel to Daves style of comedy. He and Dave were close.  Nice summary, but you forgot to mention the most important thing: an ailing Zevon was invited by Letterman to sit in with Paul Shaffer's band. One of those appearances featured the interview in which Zevon famously talked about "enjoying every sandwich"  Yeah, and I guess he filled in on about twenty shows according to Dave. If you haven't listened to all of Excitable Boy do yourself a favor. It is an upbeat album with some twisted lyrics. Beautiful juxtaposition by Zevon and it struck me in just the right funny bone It really was. It really brought home the enormous breadth of entertainment that occurred on that show. The shear quantity of it is unprecedented because he's done it for so long. It was great how they tried to "categorize" some of the shots too.  
   
It's like, look at all the presidents he's interviewed.   
Look at all the people he interviewed who are dead now.  
And I really dug the quick "time lapse" where they show him at his desk when he first started and progressively getting older.  
    
Really brings home just *how long* this guy's been at it. 6,000+ shows
I thought I was old at 35, he's been doing the show since I was a baby
As he pointed out in his monologue, Stephen Hawkings worked it out to about 8 minutes of humour hehe I'm 53  he started when I was in college and now I realize I am old dammit!! I'm 47. Just glad someone older than me posted here. Letterman was the shit back in the day. I'm also 35 and had this exact same revelation. I thought it was pretty cool how it synced up to the music also, pretty good production value.  I liked how it all rushed by almost too fast to process, and how they saved it for last. The show was passing away, basically, and this was its life flashing before our eyes. That Dave wanted the song that he associated with his own mortality after his heart surgery suggests that was entirely the intent. Exactly! It just hit me as I was driving home today. I remember seeing the Crispin Glover kick and Drew Barrymore flashing Dave interviews live. I saw the clip of Drew last night and thought she looked so young. Today it hit me that I'm 2 years older than her and we are so far removed from that time and place. It made me have feels. I have a very vivid memory of watching the Crispin Glover kick live. Watching Letterman in the '80s was the only time this nerdy kid from the sticks ever felt cool.  

I'm sure younger generations just see him as just some old, conventional host - your "dad's host."  Those of us who came of age watching him know just how edgy and subversive Late Night was back in the day.   To me, he's to Gen X what Johnny Carson was to Boomers - a huge part of the culture and totally irreplaceable. 

  &gt; Johnny Carson was to Boomers

As a tail end boomer at age 50, I was sad to see both Johnny Carson and David Letterman go. That was the strangest, most uncomfortable television moment I have seen. "You wanna arm wrestle? I can kick" and misses Dave by a few inches.  https://youtu.be/jCaxKq5KFQM That was a huge part of Dave's appeal in the early days. I think that's why Dave liked having guys on like Andy Kauffman and Harvey Pekar.  He relished awkward, confrontational comedy. 

My parents were completely baffled by it, which made me like it all the more.  

 Dave's Weirdness was on national TV. Today, such comedy is pushed out and into small, niche TV/Web or on Twitter.

This truly was a generational shift that occurred last night.  Have we ever figured out what is/was wrong with Crispin Glover? Dave, excellent handling of that: "I'm gonna go check on the Top Ten."  That was 1987, and Crispin showed up in character for a role that he was currently filming at the time. The only problem is, that movie didn't actually release until 1991 so without any kind of relevant context everyone thought that Crispin's cheese must've slid off the cracker. Fun fact, a similar scenario happened with Garth Brooks staying in character (Chris Gaines, fictional rock star) for a "biopic" that was gonna be released in the late 90s. It was baaaaaaaaaaaaaad. &gt; Have we ever figured out what is/was wrong with Crispin Glover?

Yes. The answer is, "He's Crispin Glover." It was an act, but Dave apparently wasn't in on it. Glover decided to appear in character as Rubin Farr from a film that wouldn't be released till 1991 called Rubin and Ed. Paul picked up on it when he said right after the segment that he thought it was a "conceptual piece". Yeah I watched last night and it wasn't until this morning that it really hit me that there's no new show on tonight or ever again. He's far too bad ass and has more integrity than Leno so we know we'll hardly ever see the guy again. I think it's great though, obviously his son Harry changed him for the best and it's great that he'll be able to spend time with him in his last days before the kid grows up resenting and hating him. Well, as Dave says, that'll be his stepfather's problem. crap. I totally forgot to watch it.
 You're right, I'll miss Letterman I was struck by how many iconic moments there were, just dozens and dozens of things that are intrinsic to the culture.  I'm so glad they did it that way.  Agreed. Really cool send-off. But just so you know, it's "sheer." "Shear quantity" would be the pile of hair under a barber chair.  How do you I wasn't referencing Dave's many haircuts over the years? Love that Warren Zevon got a couple extra moments. Him and Letterman were close. Yeah Dave loved him. The last time Warren was on Daves show was sad :( My friend and I used to watch this show every night back when I was in high school.  Then we would both talk about the show the next day in school.  So many memories.  We always loved the "Census 2000: We wanna know who you are, where you're from, and just what the hell you're trying to pull"

Now I feel old.   and to quote dave grohl..
When there's so much left to do, why spend your time focusing on things you've already done, counting trophies or telling stories about the good old days?
 Two pictures that really stood out to me was the juxtaposition of sadness in love as his son reached out to him, and that of the ecstatic happiness in sadness as Dave and Robin Williams shared a moment. Yeah it had both good, funny, and sad moments all in one.  I feel bad about this. I have never seen a full show of David Letterman. These late shows in our country are not popular or not broadcasted, also even on the internet i have to use ton of proxies to try and watch one. Anyway, i really feel the people that Mr. Letterman has influenced over the years, and i feel really sad that i have never seen him do his thing, neither live or on TV. This feels like a new chapter in American television, since i have heard Daves name be mentioned everywhere. The send of made me feel something special that i wasn't suppossed to feel. I'd like to say that im going to remarathon all the seasons, but im not. What i can promise is that im going to watch atleast one episode, and see how it goes, even though im already too late... Goodbye Dave. I feel that it was filled with subliminal messages. "Be Sure To Drink Your Ovaltine" When he said they were playing his favorite song all I could think was, "Everlong...C'mon please be Everlong." When they played a week of shows on Letterman back in the fall around the premiere of Sonic Highways, he told a story about how he had a video of his kid skiing which the instructor had edited with Everlong (he showed a clip during the montage). It was a really sweet story. 

But yeah it was clearly Everlong. I was hoping they would do a second song and play My Hero. That would have been perfect too. The video with his son was actually edited with "Miracle" off In Your Honor. I think Letterman said it as he was introducing the Foo Fighters when he had them on another time. 

I'm on my phone or I'd link it up for you. Letterman tells the story then they go into a tremendous version of Everlong. Worth a watch. 

 You're right, it was "Miracle". Letterman tells the story in [this clip](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rm1SlkrEP40). Was it the same clip they played after the credits last night? I'm pretty sure it was. Dave is my hero, watch him as he goes. great album too Dave Grohl seems to be unanimously a very nice guy. He is so cool. There's a movie/day in the life film of the foo fighters and they're all chilling at his house. He shows his garage, he drives a Honda Odyssey. 

Then there's this: http://i.imgur.com/SRGBc.jpg In that same film there's a scene where he's tracking guitar for one of their albums and his daughter comes running in screaming "IT'S TIME TO GO IN THE POOL YOU PROMISED!" or something to that effect and Dave just kind of sighs, puts his guitar down and they cut to him playing with his kids in the pool. What film is this? My girlfriend would love it. I'm fairly sure it was Back and Forth. It's mostly a history of the Foo Fighters with the last 20+ minutes being a small documentary on the recording of Wasting Light. Never really got to meet him but the one interaction I had with him was great. We were standing near their tour bus in Boston back on the acoustic tour. It was right after Dave and his wife had had a child. The door of the bus opened and down came a stroller, just tumbling out of the van. Behind the stroller was Dave screaming things like "OH JESUS CHRIST, MY WIFE IS GOING TO KILL ME. PLEASE PLEASE LET HER BE OK." He rushed over to the stroller stood it upright and then looked at all of us waiting around and smiled, lifted the hood of the stroller and said "I'm just fucking with you guys." He took a couple of pictures with fans then yelled to all of us "Thanks for coming, enjoy the show guys." He went inside and didn't come back out. It was pretty surreal seeing all that and once we realized he didn't drop his newborn we all had a good laugh. Didn't get to personally meet Dave but I did get to meet the rest of the band. Nate and Taylor were awesome guys, especially Nate. He seemed more interested in having a conversation with my buddy and I than going inside. The door guy eventually had to come over to him to tell him he was going to be late. Nate apologized to us since he couldn't stand around and chat anymore. Really cool night.  Got the chance to meet him a couple times. One of which was this same show in Boston. My friend and I were yelling for them to play Comeback from the 2nd row for most of the show (they didn't play it). After the show we asked him about playing it live. He replied with a big grin on his face, "was that you guys yelling that the whole fucking time?"

I was like holy shit, Dave Grohl heard my voice and understood my words. Oh so you were the asshole yelling... Sorry, 20 year old me was a shit bag No worries man, we have all been there.  Comeback is an awesome song!! Do they ever play it live? They played an early version one time. Never again after that.  Wow, this really sounds awesome.

I like them, although I've never been a huge fan. I would still LOVE to have the opportunity to share a beer with these guys. Plus Nate does that whole weird upper body movement thing when he's playing! He came up with some pretty cool bass lines, too: Doll, Next Year, Dear Rosemary, Feast and the Famine, etc.

Edit: typo I have a connection to Dave and went to a party at his house years ago. They hired a DJ and he put on an electronic/techno remix of "Come As You Are." I was talking with Dave when this happened.  When it clicked what he was hearing he spun around an chucked a beer over the DJ's head. Seconds later the song was off and order was restored. TL/DR - Don't play electronic remixes of Nirvana around Dave Grohl. 
 &gt;electronic/techno remix of "Come As You Are."

Why is that a thing? Like, I have no problem with remixes, but why that particular song? Reminds me of a rave I did security for where the DJ awkwardly tossed in the chorus to "Otherside" during his set. Yay suicide, let's party! At the St James in Auckland, NZ?

 How long ago was this? He's number 1 on my "celebrities I'd like to have a beer with" list.   I'd love to have a few [fresh pots](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fhdCslFcKFU) with him. My only problem is that there's not a fresh fucking pot! How many pots have you smoken?  [I just cannot get this video out of my head.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EMBO3KDmtYE) My best friend used to work for him and hung out with him a few times, said he was super cool. Then I met him backstage at one of their shows thanks to her (2008?), and can confirm, he's pretty fucking cool. 
Proof: (Sorry, I was sweaty and disgusting in these pics) http://imgur.com/KCVOalP

http://imgur.com/kyqGQol &gt; sweaty and disgusting

Expected a dude. 10/10 would click again. Thanks! Though, my username does have "girl" in it!  =) I stopped trusting usernames after that one motel meetup. Good thinking.  Just saw them live for the first time last Friday... I can't stop  loving this guy I met him at jury duty a number of years ago and he was a super great guy. I rarely go out of the way to say hi or thanks to celebrities, but I felt like I had to with him and he couldn't have been nicer.  "Aww man I have jury duty and have no way to get out of it this sucks."

Dave Grohl appears.

"Okay, I can live with this."


My list of celebrities most likely to not try to get out of jury duty is:

1.) Dave Grohl
2.) Bill Murray I didn't say anything to him until we were excused and were leaving, which was after being there half the day. He was sitting in a back corner on his computer and looked like he didn't want to be disturbed. Aren't you required to come up with a unanimous verdict as a jury, surely that necessitated saying something to him before you were excused? No, neither of us were chosen to go on a jury. We sat in the waiting room for half a day and then when the court officials got word that there weren't going to be any more cases starting that day we were all dismissed &gt;My list of celebrities most likely to not try to get out of jury duty is:

&gt;1.) Dave Grohl 2.) Bill Murray

I bet Bill Murray actively tries to get Jury Duty

 This sounds so lame but I wish he didn't swear so much. My seven year old nephew loves their music and I recorded a recent Foo Fighters concert for him to watch. I watched the first five minutes and it was basically like "Fucking hey, fuck me, you guys fuckin know how to fuckin fuck, here's a fuckin song called fuckin Learn to fucking Fly"  Tell your son he's a Pirate and that's the reason he can speak like that. "Gorgeous drum set." Is it yours? It a rental? [reference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M65Dx0STe2M) My favorite song. First kiss song and all that. Hate that I missed his final show. My first kiss was during the Simpsons where Homer becomes a car salesman, farts, and turns on the radio to cover up the smell. True romance. For me it was at a cannibal corpse concert. Romance is still very much alive You attracted your mate by approaching with the Ace Ventura "Cannnibal Corpse Dance", didn't you? Fun fact: Cannibal Corpse was in the movie because Jim Carrey was a huge fan of them. He grew up in Toronto and since they are from Buffalo, he was able to follow them closely in the bands early days. Watch it [here](http://www.cbs.com/shows/late_show/). [Here is just the Foo Fighters clip](http://www.cbs.com/shows/late_show/video/dcZ17aoQCjAGVVhmIe5t8202VhGvvS67/foo-fighters-everlong-david-letterman/) One of my good friends played it beautifully at our wedding for our first dance. 

I'll always remember it because that day was so crazy, it was the first time I really got to speak with my wife that day. Well yeah she was only your fianc up to that day It was my first dance at my wedding too. Except were divorced now :/

I'm taking the song back though. It was my favorite before her, it's gonna stay my favorite after her.  Cheating exes come and go, the Foo stays strong. Up vote for a crazy amazing match to your first kiss.  Hope it matched the feeling of the song.  I missed the show. This video montage  tore me up a little.  You can still see it on the CBS website only if you live in the states :(

e: holy fuck yes hola is a thing, i get it now You're welcome

https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/hola-better-internet/gkojfkhlekighikafcpjkiklfbnlmeio?hl=en For those of you who do not speak our native tongue, I'll translate

"gkojfkhlekighikafcpjkiklfbnlmeio?hl=en"

"I am a god damn american, I do what I want, I watch what I want, and fuck ya'll otherwise" I thought it was German for "exploit"  Just be aware that Hola operates by using another Hola user's connection to tunnel yours through their location. 

That's all well and good unless someone uses it for malicious, disgusting, or possibly illegal content. 

I personally wouldn't use Hola, but if you do, make sure to *disable* (not just click it's off button) the extension as it will run in the background exposing you to risk, and not to mention possibly hogging bandwidth.  I'm sure the torrent will be up by now. .
 I have it recorded to watch later and was trying not to read any spoilers...not even mad about the Foo.  I know I'm going to leak a little bit at some point during the show. I grew up watching Dave  Hope you're luckier that me with your recording. Dave ran the show about 20 minutes over so my DVR didn't record all of it. Thankfully I was able to install the cbs app and watch it there.  I *knew* it would go over, I set it to record 30 minutes past  You know I thought I would ball my eyes out but Dave is so good he kept me laughing the whole way through till the end. Dave was the master do late night. It was the shot of him holding a picture of his son as a baby that did it for me. To think of all the major moments in his life that he shared on his show, and to have them there on video forever must be emotional.  Dave Grohl is my celebrity one time pass, and I'm not even gay. Well technically,  you're at least bi.   Kinsey scale, bruh. We're all some shade of grey. Most of us, anyway.  Some shade of gay. 50 Shades of Gay Still better than the actual book. Still not a better love story than Sandlot Anyone wonder if they're missing out on half their options due to being 100% straight?  I've never seen a man I've been attracted to and can't conceive of a case where that's possible, but what if my girlfriend gets hit by a bus?  My future options are immediately cut in half just thanks to being hetero. Nope.  Haven't wondered this.  I am certain there are enough females out there for me to find one. No. You have to fuck a guy because Kinsey. Women can't fuck you in the ass like a guy can though.  Strap-ons. Don't say that to any man paying alimony.... Kinsey didn't bother to research "famous"-sexual tendencies, though.  I'd make intense eye contact with Dave. I aint no prude.  I'd be gay for one day with Dave I remember back in the late nineties I think, when Dave had heart surgery, Foo Fighters were on for him and he introduced them as his favorite band playing his favorite song.

Honestly, up until reading this post right now, I always thought he was bullshitting since the song was fairly new and insanely popular. In fact, before clicking the thread, I mumbled to my wife, "I guess it really is his favorite song..." She remembers that night, also.

To be fair, though, that song is like the Stairway of the late nineties. It really is fucking great.  Yeah, he told that story last night, actually. He said the song really helped him during his recovery from surgery, and when he asked his people to see whether or not they were available to play for his first show back after surgery, Foo Fighters cancelled/postponed their tour of South America to play for Dave. He also said that they've been "joined at the hip" ever since. That's awesome.

I'm gonna have to watch the show at some point. It's amazing how we watched Dave every night back then. Our oldest could barely make a sentence, now he moved out yesterday....and now my wife loves Jimmy Fallon, and I almost only watch Netflix.

Boy, have times changed.....
 I haven't really watched Dave since the early 00's but there were sill so many bus that I remembered during his final episodes. He was definitely one of a kind and I doubt any other talk show host will have the impact that he did. This just in: South Americans rejoice of Letterman's retirement, Foo Fighters to begin South American tour in July.  Stared at this post for ages amazed that Dave Grohl had heart surgery.  Dave consistently had the best musical acts of the night talk show line up.   Lettermen had the best music on his shows, the up and coming stuff and great indie music. EXPLOSIONS! DOG DRIVING A JOHN DEERE! DAVE'S MOM! It was a great montage and it's not until you see it do you realize how much he did. The explosion montage was so good.  Genuinely exciting.   I'm not a big Letterman fan, or a big late night tv fan of anyone except Conan, but Dave is a class act.  The tuxedos were a nice touch.  I read this article in which Julia Roberts said she considers him a close friend; has been on his show 27 times; but has never once seen him outside the show. He's a strange bird but fortunately I like strange birds. I don't think he's ever been comfortable with the whole celebrity thing. He had his sex scandal with staffers, and in the old days he used to get speeding tickets, but I don't remember ever hearing about him out partying in NYC after a show or anything like that.  The thing about Letterman is/was, he eschewed the whole celebrity thing. In the early days/heyday of that show (the 80s, essentially), half of his schtick was about mocking celebrity. It's why Cher said she thought he was an asshole....because he didn't just kiss ass on his show. If we thought a guest was boring or not engaging, he'd find ways to make them uncomfortable.  Yep.  I always found it hilarious when Howard Stern would beg to have dinner with Dave, and Dave would always say something to the effect of, "Sure, we can do that." but the look on his face - you know it was never happening.

The fact he didn't want "in" only made him cooler. Dave used to introduce them as "Our Nations one and only defense against Foo".  I always thought that was a pretty clever intro.  I noticed he didn't say that last night and was disappointed.  Seeing them Monday night, can't wait :D Saw them last Friday at the Hangout Festival. It was easily the best show I've ever seen. Grohl was one gigantic ball of energy! I remember him saying "we're going to play until they kick us off the stage!" At Vodoo fest last year they actually did, hah.

They played for 2.5 hrs, then you could see the stage manager was standing off to the side, looking at Dave, pointing at his watch. He was smiling, though, so he was cool with it, but he could literally not let it go any longer or someone was gonna call the city police about it (city park is right next to some very upscale neighborhoods :P).

I was at the Hangout Fest show too last week, and it was just as amazing. They're as close to a must-see-live show as you're ever going to get. The GF and I went to use the restrooms on the left side of the stage. Ended up staying over near there and working our way to damn near the front. Great show! I especially enjoyed their cover of Stay With Me. You were probably standing near me!

That cover was epic on all levels. One of the highlights of the weekend. Same! Super excited for it If I said it once, I've said it a thousand times: Foo Fighters need to play the Superbowl half time show. It would finally be a half time worth watching. It'll happen. Not sure when but one day this will happen. It will.. SuperBowl 75 Would probably be interesting because half time shows are lip synced now and I don't think Grohl can do two identical live performances. When all of reddit becomes /r/foofighters

Beautiful. Everyone is a Foo Fighters fan. Some just don't know it yet. I went to a concert last summer thinking I knew 3 maybe 4 of their songs. I knew every single song except for 2. And they played at least 20. I've loved them ever since.  I felt that way seeing No Doubt at a festival a few years back.  I knew all the songs and Gwen can do like 20 one-armed push-ups while singing.  Badass. yep, have been to a few concerts of theirs in my life and didn't realize I knew almost every FF song.

I'm from VA where he grew up, and the amount of FF love here is insane.  IMO one of the best songs to come out of the 90's. This was such a great montage closing. I couldn't help but see the similarity in the montage and how real life goes. As a middle aged guy, I tend to look back and can scroll through pictures in my mind's eye. It is incredible how fast time moves. I only wish there was a way to effectively communicate and convey this to younger people at the same rate of intensity and speed that it actually happens. (That statement will probably be lost on everyone except people my age. Maybe describing this is like trying to describe a color.)  Foo Fighters was a fitting choice and they brought it - like always.  Good luck, Dave! This is my favorite Foo Fighter's song, too. So good.  I cried a tear.    Everlong became famous after Foo Fighters performed it acoustic live on the Howard Stern Show.  Dave Grohl even thanked Howard at a subsequent appearance. Awesome song.   Yes! This is my favorite rendition!

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BN1o5wsL8J4
 That random fade to Rosie O'Donnel made me lose it. That is a great rendition.

[Here is my favorite](http://youtu.be/hfRNVmGGOxY)
 I saw them in Indy on their Echoes, Silence, Patience, and Grace tour, and they did this. It was the first concert I'd been too, and it absolutely blew my mind.  How many times have they performed Everlong for him now? At least: after he came back from surgery, the two-hour special concert they performed, and last night. But I think Letterman mentioned they've played it on his show like 10 times or something like that.  Definitely at least two according to the story he gave last night. Who was the person that got punched on the show? Andy Kaufman slapped by Jerry Lawler.  All part of a very long hoax feud they pulled off. The long con  I was hoping Andy Kaufman would pop out to read the last item in the final Top Ten list... The very long con.  Andy was an awesome comedian. I was young but I remember taxi and his wwf/wwe run. Anything for wrestlemania tickets I guess. Lol Andy Kaufman was the ultimate troll. He perfected it before it was even a thing. Go watch Man on the Moon.  Incredible movie.  It explains it. That was Andy Kaufman. He did some wrestling related stunts that you can read about here:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andy_Kaufman#Professional_wrestling I will guess it was Andy Kaufman. I can't see the bottom two thirds of the video. Anybody have a mirror? Try scrolling down. Genius. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yrVjOUIoo6Q Zac Brown obviously in that photo, anybody know what else they played after Everlong? That photo is when Foo Fighters released their new album. Old pic. Nothing, the song was played over a montage of clips and ended the show nice rendition of Everlong to send off Letterman!!!! I'm not a huge fan of the Foo Fighters, but I love "Everlong". Great song. I have never met anyone that does not like everlong but the only people that I have met that don't really like them don't really know about them so I have to ask you why.

Not like it's a bad thing just that I'm interested to what you don't like about them.

Edit: wow there were a lot of "thems" in there. Foo Fighters being the them of course.  i'm not a foo fighters fan and might be able to give you some reasoning 

Their music is just...not all that interesting? It seems like very radio generic rock music. Nothing really that inspires me. The production is really high quality, they're all super talented musicians, but it's almost like because of those things they're just another rock band. Kind of boring, not very offensive or interesting to a young and curious mind. 

With that said, I do think that their self titled first album is pretty good.

It isn't that they're a bad band, they're just not the kind of band to make me go "Wow that was good i'm going to run out and buy their album or concert tickets"

I hate to bring up this comparison but I definitely like nirvana more for that style of what i'd call "Pop-Alternative" kind of music. I do feel it's a somwhat relevant comparison though because i've listened to both their self titled and "the colour and the shape" all the way through and also heard select newer songs and I feel that Grohl really took a lot of influence out of playing with nirvana, at least from what reflects in his songwriting style IMO.

basically, there are a lot of those 90's alt acts that I felt really fucking kicked ass...such as (pre-adore) Smashing Pumpkins, Alice in Chains, and Radiohead among popular examples and after listening to their music when wanting my Alt-Rock fix i end up dissapointing by the Foo Fighters music.  That was just perfect it couldn't have ended any better. I love that the montage started with the Crispin Glover kick. That's one of my all time favorite moments of any talk show ever! Loved that they lingered on Warren Zevon. Who is the woman just after Gilda Radner at time 1:15 ? Well, I cried, add that to the list of weird things i'll do today  You're a redditor. It's assumed that you cry about everything. Friendzoned again.  :( two of the best! Great song. Such a great song  I can't wait to see FF live this summer!!!!!!!! (Great clip montage, too. No crying from Dave and an honorable exit.) That's one thing in common I have with Letterman.  In high school I used to love making mix CDs with movie quotes and my favorite songs (obviously) etc. and I was very proud to have a copy of Foo Fighters singing Everlong for Dave when he came back from his quadruple bypass heart surgery. It started with Dave saying "Ladies and gentlemen, my favorite band, playing my favorite song, Foo Fighters." Always gave me goosebumps for some reason.  I love how in the year 2015, the Foo Fighters do just about everything associated with everything...  It's a good fucking song. Letterman was a huge Warren Zevon fan, and often had him on the show even after his career started to dip in the 80's, and of course Warren made his last ever performance before his death in 2003 on Dave's show.  So it was nice to see, not only Warren twice in the montage, but the second time had a huge long pause. Agreed. I was so pleased when they lingered on that closeup of Warren. Obviously Dave greatly respects the Foo Fighters, but there is no question who his favorite musician was. To this day, I think of Warren every time I have a sandwich.  TBH... I really liked this performance.  It's the first time I've ever been able to tolerate Grohl's voice live.  But, I did.  I absolutely liked it.  Also, I thought they usually went acoustic on that number these days because Hawkins didn't bang the skins in the studio, but wow he proved me wrong! Is it odd that this makes me sad? Not Dave leaving but the world is moving on....
 I'm genuinely gonna miss Letterman. I have a soft spot for Conan, but I do think that Letterman is the best to ever do it.  FRESH POTS! i know the images went by pretty fast but is it just me or were there none of Bill Hicks? i know their relationship didn't end the best but still I'd say it wasn't something conscious. Just a lot of time to cover, a lot of guests throughout the years. IIRC once after Bill died Dave actually had Bill's mom come on the show and I think he expressed some regret over how the relationship between Dave/the show and Bill had wound up and that he wished he would've have handled things differently. Could be wrong though. Still playing roughly 150 shows a year up until this. This is going to be a tough loss for the blues and music community. 

[Just a great duet with Clapton](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=59P6Ly7zRc0) &gt;"You know what? You're getting better all the time, young man. Thank you, Eric."

What a legend He used to stay at a hotel I worked at and would only tip in $100s &gt; Still playing roughly 150 shows a year up until this

Kind of sad to think he was still touring. He's 89, has diabetes and has cancelled many shows due to dehydration and exhaustion, plus he got booed at one recent show because his performance was awful, and that was down to his health issues. He needed the rest a long time ago, in my opinion. Have to wonder why his family/management let him carry on.  Perhaps he just loved it so much he couldn't give it up. It was his life. Saw him in 2008.  He was so active on stage, even when sitting, that you could tell there was nothing he'd rather be doing than playing that show. Who the fuck yells "booooo" at an 89 year old doing what he loves? Ludicrous. Ludacris did that? What an asshole I'd yell at an 89 year old Luda.

EY LUDA STILL HOLDIN IT DOWN IN 2040 DTP ALL DAY  THESE KIDS ALL IN MY YARD TALKIN SHIT I AINT TRYIN TO HEAR  Took out the aids and put it in my rear Seriously. You bought a ticket to see an aging legend. It will not be as good as him in his prime. If you want to hear that then listen to a fucking record or stream the music. What you would hear at that show is what the man is, not what he was. Let him play with Goddamn dignity.  Who the fuck yells boo at BB fucking King? &gt;I stepped out of Mississippi when I was ten years old  
&gt;With a suit cut sharp as a razor and a heart made of gold  
&gt;I had a guitar hanging just about waist high  
&gt;And I'm gonna play this thing until the day I die  

There's no way his family was ever going to get him to stop touring; it's the bluesman code, they all play up until the very end. I mean he's 89 dude. I seriously doubt he would have sacrificed his music to get a few more years of just existed. Do you know what kind of legend you have to be to still draw crowds at that age? Dude was still loving it Dude, he's 89. Are you suggesting that if he had retired earlier, he would have lived longer? Well that's not exactly true, considering he made it to 89. How much longer could he have lived? I'm amazed he's made it this far. There is a line in riding with the king. 

I stepped out of Mississippi when I was 10 years old. With a suit cut sharp as a razor and a heart made of gold. I had a guitar hanging about waist high. I am going to play this thing until the day I die. 

Edit it was 10 years old 
 And remember BB King was prominently performing while people like Elvis and Willie Nelson were just getting started. He truly is an icon.

(Although the lyrics to some of his songs are not very politically correct today.) I went to see him play about a year ago.  It was very hard to watch a guitar legend like him struggle so mightily to do something that was once so natural.  The whole experience was rather heartbreaking.  

May his last days be filled with family and friends.  He will be missed. My grandmother took me to see him for my birthday last February in Santa Cruz, I felt the same exact way. He put on a great show though, had the whole crowd singing "You Are My Sunshine" at one point. And dammit if he didn't try to play and sing his heart out in every song  It's easy to see that BB King has incredible passion for his music. He could have retired 30 years ago, but even when he seemed too old to perform he gave it his best shot anyway. I've never met him but my mother has many times and she says he's incredibly sweet and humble. We've lost so many great people in the last year, it would be terrible to lose BB King. *will be

FTFY
No one gets out of here alive. Nobody gets out of here without singing the blues.  Babysitting blues? "I'll never get out of this world alive." - Hank Sr. His sing-a-long rendition of You Are My Sunshine last summer was one of the greatest moments of my concert-going life.  Makes me tear up thinking about it. That was the same exact experience I had. It truly depressed me, but I was glad he still had his wits about him to even give a bad show (although I was honored just to see him play anything live). When I saw him I enjoyed it thoroughly. He seemed happy... I mean I wasn't expecting him to be at his prime I saw him about 5 years ago and he played great I love BB and his music. 

At Crossroads Festival in Chicago in 2010 he was one of the final acts (well after dark) and he just kept playing and and talking and eventually rambling. At first it seemed like he was doing his set, then it seemed like one long song, and eventually we kinda realized he didn't know what else to do but keep playing that easy twelve bar he was used to (and talk and repeat himself a whole lot). 

Honestly, it was grandpa cute. Everybody in the crowd seemed to love it. The families packed up their blankets and looked on smiling and the single/young people were happy the families were leaving the show prematurely. All the [fellas](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1699119/) (tons of legends and songwriters and up and comers) politely and slowly slid on stage to back BB up and transition into the final jam. I bet every lead guitarist on that list, which I haven't checked, except for Buddy Guy, because of his and Clapton's Chicago thing they do which I can also explain as best I know, played that song with BB. I think it was Clapton's call and move and it was just "this guy did so much for all of us, let's just sneak up and not make him feel cut off". Cities have limits on how late shows can go and the "surprise" but expected act of Buddy Guy hadn't appeared yet.

Imagine when your grandfather is kinda rambling on and you pick up the conversation and then get him to the table for Thanksgiving dinner. They were kinda doing that. I hope it didn't hurt BB's feelings but he would have gone on until he fell asleep, I think. What an entertainer. Saw him at the 2007 Crossroads. Maybe they were a little smarter that year as they gave him an earlier slot. Anyway, he came on, played a few tunes, then did one of his "BB Talks" if you will, with the backing band carrying on real smooth. I don't remember the exact speech, but it was something to the effect of "I'm not sure how much longer I have on this earth, but when they finally lay me down in the ground, let the last voices I hear be yours!"

There wasn't a dry eye in the crowd.  Hey, awesome anecdote man, thanks for sharing that today. I was honored to see him play in the summer of 1996.   I will not forget. I remember seeing a few years ago that he was still touring and I thought it was amazing and really wanted to make an effort to go see him but couldn't find an opportunity/ forgot to check dates in time. If that was the experience maybe it's ok I didn't. 

My hats off to him though for not just resigning to his age and saying "i'm too old" and effectively waiting around to die as I see so many older folks do. he's a true legend. It might not be his last days. Hospice care isn't necessarily right at the end like that. I saw him at Bonnaroo in 2008. A helicopter was flying overhead, and he asked the crowd, "What is this, Vietnam?" I was there too. He also said "The girls always tell me now, B.B., you're so cute! Why couldn't they have been saying that 50 years ago!"

It was a great show. To the people elsewhere saying he was struggling to perform over the past couple years, that's sad to hear. At least he was still at it. He definitely could put on a show in his early 80s  an impressive feat.  I love that he could play modest. If you've ever heard the ladies swooning at every lyric he belted out on Live at the Regal, you'd know that he had no problem pulling in the ladies. I gave you 7 children....and now you wanna give em back (Crowd erupts) That song gives me the chills every time I hear. So good. When I was a stupid kid in the late-90s I saw him at a concert and didn't get it - at all. He was just some old guy sitting in a chair playing music for a bunch of rich white people so they could feel like they got it. My family had tickets and I'd driven separately with a friend, so about half way into the show we left. Looking back, I don't think I was wrong about a lot of the people at the show, but having listened to a lot more of his music, I regret how much my own naivete and judgmental assessment of the concert cost me. 

Edit: Sorry for sharing an anecdote I thought was relevant and my thoughts about the experience. I shouldn't have tried to do that without opening myself up to insults I guess. It was a concert at a place called Interlaken, a *very* well-respected but rather pretentious performing arts academy in northern Michigan. Note my use of *a lot of these people* and not *all of these people* in my comment before deciding to write whatever de jour platitude about sjws or my own feelings of superiority you've thought up. And my family *were* some of those rich white people for what its worth (which made me one as well), but after growing up in a circle filled with hundreds of waspish, culturally superior people who had never really seen a black person but felt they understood them after hearing a select handful perform for them on stage, it got old. Northern Michigan can be a very racist place - there's no getting around this - and it manifests itself in strange ways.  When I was a young idiot I used to get mad when I saw a well dressed person say they liked Nirvana, because there was no way they "got it".  But now I realize that there is nothing to "get".  If they enjoyed that kind of music at any level,  their love of Cobain was just as valid as mine.   
B.B. King is a legend.  And these "rich white people" went to listen to a legend and pay respect.  At least they stayed and tried to understand it on whatever level they could.  And maybe they "got it" a lot more than you think they did.  I think you missed the part where he said rich white people. Don't you know rich white people *can't* get it?  He got so triggered he had to leave halfway through the show. &gt; playing music for a bunch of rich white people so they could feel like they got it

Huh. That wasn't my experience, at all. (Of course I saw him in the '80's....) There were young white kids in ripped jeans and old black people dressed to the nines....and everything in between. I remember looking around and noticing it and thinking "*This is fucking cool....*"
 That is why I like George Clinton shows so much.  Such a diverse crowd, all getting high from the music, the weed, or both.  :)

Never saw BB live.  Another opportunity missed.
I hope his passing is peaceful. When I saw George Clinton, it was like a cross-section of society: young white hipsters, young black stoners, rednecks with cowboy boots, middle-aged managers, old black church ladies, and more. I had no idea his appeal was so broad. Yes!  And the pimp suits complete with canes!  I would seriously encourage everyone to check out one of his shows.  

He is getting older too. I got to see BB play live when i was in high school. I didn't particularly care for his music in general at the time, but i knew it was an opportunity i couldn't pass up. How often do you get to see an actual legend perform in person?

I know i didn't appreciate every aspect of that performance to its fullest extent, but that night was not lost on me and stands out as one of the best concerts I've ever been to in my life. Even the opening acts were amazing, bands i'd never heard of before that i still listen to today.

I never got to see Maynard Ferguson play live while he was alive, and that's something i'm still kicking myself for today. I'm lucky to say that i got to see BB King. That was a great show. Agreed! Funny as hell, had a lot of energy... I put that performance in my top 5, easily. I was there too, god he was so great even then. Rest well King.  He came on in Glastonbury a couple years ago, sat in this chair and said "I need this chair now. I'm a little old, and a little cold, but I can still shake my boogie!" then he shook his booty while in the chair and said again "I said I'm a little old, and a little cold, but I can still shake my boogie!!!"  B.B King is one of my favorite musicians. He was mine and my moms favorite artist together. On my birthday one year she surprised me to go see him in kansas city. It was one of the greatest nights if my life.  KC rep.  Saw him in 1996 at Spritfest. Go kc! Yeah i was only 3 at that time or i probably would of went. I was i think maybe 13 or 12. So were you 3, 12 or 13 at the time? For the uninitiated, the classic, Lucille.

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=-Y8QxOjuYHg This comments section should be full of his amazing music.
"Why I sing the Blues":

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HJrZ1LAOLYQ [Worry, Worry] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YpnJry5Buak) Live At The Regal Favorite B.B. King song ever. I read somewhere that the reason he named the guitar Lucille was because he needed an excuse to rescue it from a burning building and they wouldn't let him run in for a guitar so he said "I need to go get Lucille!" I wonder if that's true. I heard that he was in a club and two men were fighting over a woman named Lucille. The fight somehow started a fire and he saved the guitar off the stage. This is what he said in the song... To not only do what he loved until he could literally do it no more, but to bring so much joy to so many while doing it is an achievement seldom realized.  I envy that.  He's among the last of the Old Guatd, a living legend.  

 here's some others of the old guard. one or two of 'em may still be alive too

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=baVMsZD8Yzk

 God Bless Him. 
With love, from Mississippi. Hattiesburg here.
He is in our thoughts. [deleted] Indianola here. This man is a big part of our lives here. Saw him many times in my life at the BB King Music Festival. 2000 was the best blues show I've ever heard. There were so many different walks of life there that night, all hugging and dancing and singing the blues with BB. That's why he's loved. May God grace him with the ease of passing he deserves. A great man.  Orlando wishes BB well also! Just got back from a weekend in Clarksdale. Thinking about him. This is a weird circlejerk. Circlejerk here. Touching myself feverishly. Omaha here. Thinking about you touching yourself. Pascagoula. Yep we also love him. The Moon here. Thinking about BB King.  Petal as well. Good luck, BB.  Mexico here, this is how legends say goodbye. Doing stuff their way.  Laurel here. Keeping him close to our hearts, as always. Tupelo here. Feeling it. Also from Hattiesburg. Such a sad time. In our thoughts he will be.  Thanks for the cool tunes, bro. You'll be remembered forever. The vibrato; the feeling.  Thanks, Blues Boy. All the love from Memphis and Beale Street, just finished Memphis in May thinking about him Well that just ruined my night.  I remember my heart dropped when I saw the post about Ben E. King passing.  I misread it and thought that B. B. had died.  Don't get me wrong it was still a tragic loss but I was relieved that B. B. was still with us.  Now this=( I had done the same thing.  I had listened to his music for a couple of hours after my mistake just to remember all the great music B. B. has made.   Well apparently Ben E. King died... thanks for the heads up. When I was 13, B.B. King was my guitar idol. I loved his music and through many connections was allowed into a 19+ concert and ended up meeting him and got a guitar strap signed. It was only a few years ago, and the concert was fantastic but he played a short 45 minute set, and after seemed tired. B.B. King is undoubtedly one of the most influential guitarists ever and he'll always be alive in each of us.

Proof: http://imgur.com/ofyIwSZ I could totally see Kenan Thompson playing B.B. King in a movie one day. I think it's the smile &amp; relaxed eyes in the pic. Very similar.

Bet he'd kill it, too. Like, "holy shit, this dude can act" levels of killing it. Back in high school I asked my dad if he wanted to go see bb king to the local theater with me. He said he wasn't a big fan of bb King. My dad was the kind of guy that would drop everything for me. We didn't hang out that often and whenever I reached out he would be there. Skipped an important meeting with the WHO once to go to the movies with me at the last minute because I asked. 

That show was the first time I'd ever experienced it from his perspective. All those times he asked if I wanted o go to a jets game and I said I didn't like football. Or if I wanted to grab lunch and I had a party. 

Now my dad is dead, BB King is dying, and I am sad.  You're probably better off not going to a jets game.  I don't know, there's always the first five weeks of any football season. Thats too bad man. You have the blues. Sounds familiar to my childhood.  I had the exact opposite experience. My Dad one day told me excitedly that he got BB King tickets. Not to say that I wasn't a fan, I knew all about him and what he did for Blues, but my Dad was waaaaaayyy more excited than I was.

Him and I went, and had a great time! It was a weird time in my life as I had just had a very nasty breakup from a LTR that had pretty much consumed my life for the previous 3 years. This was mine and my Dad's 'getting back to normal' outing. BB played very well (he had turned 84 the day before). When he played Thrill is Gone, we went up to the stage had he was able to hand us some souvenir pins during a break in his guitar part. 

Not a super spectacular story, but my Dad passed last year and am too thinking of him while reading this news. Fucking Achievement Hunter at it again. It's kinda scary how fast that was, just finished that video too. It's not even cool how this keeps happening!! Just watched that vid this morning  Came here looking for a comment like this.

They really do have some kind of black magic touch. Amazing. First Ray, now this. I think they are behind this one The curse continues. Could someone explain this to me? I'm familiar with achievement hunter, but what do they have to do with this?  Sometimes when they mention a famous person, bad things happen to that famous person.

They mention a lot of famous people so it's bound to happen, but it's been uncannily close a few times. The thrill ain't gone. He'll keep slinging his guitar from up above.  &gt;The thrill ain't gone. He'll keep slinging his guitar from up above. 

The thrill is alive and will never be gone.
 He's not dead yet... If you're not familiar with the implications of hospice care, I envy you. No, I'm very much familiar with hospice care. I just don't think we should be eulogizing him before he's actually dead.

People do occasionally recover enough to leave hospice, even at his age. It ain't over till it's over. It isn't over 'till the fat guy sings.  With Lucille. Heya, full time caregiver for someone in hospice (my grandmother) here.

The implications of hospice have changed hugely in the past year or two (my understanding is the Affordable Care Act altered things).

People who are not 'expectant', for lack of a better term, are now being placed on hospice as a general care plan. My grandmother is one such individual.

She had a stroke back in October, and is non-verbal and bedridden, but is otherwise healthy and is expected to last at least a few more years, assuming that nothing catastrophic happens in the interim (which we have no reason to think is going to happen past the usual old age thing). For all we or any of the medical personnel know, she could last basically indefinitely, and they've said as much.

We initially were enormously opposed to it because of the implication that she was dying (she's very clearly not...she's non-verbal and bedridden but relatively active, laughing, making faces, etc. and seems to be slowly recovering some of her speech) and we were putting a sort of expiration date on her, but hospice isn't just for end-stage patients anymore.

I think it's important that people understand this, and get over the psychological hump when it comes to hospice. For us, it was the best thing we ever could have done for her and for us. The level of care she's getting is higher than anything we could ever have afforded (we still have an assistant come in for five hours four days a week) and the peace of mind of having a nurse checking her once a week is great. Hospice does not necessarily equal brink of death. Yes it does.  B.B. King is always going to hold a special place in my heart. Last summer he was playing a concert on my 18th birthday like half an hour from where I lived, and it was an 18+ venue. So I had to go, no other option but I didn't have anyone to go with me. I chalk it up as no one my age wanted to go see B.B. King play cause of a generational thing or something. Security at the door noticed my birthday/age and let me hang out outside by B.B.'s bus before the show. I actually had brought my guitar out and ambitiously tried getting that signed but no luck. I was standing there by the back of his bus where there were a few dozen other fans and this one family was talking to this guy behind the fence to the bus who ended up being one of his tour managers or something. The guy walks in to the bus and a minute later pokes his head back out and tells this family's 3-4 year old kid to come around the fence and meet Mr. King. So this kid goes on the bus for a bit and comes out with a bunch of signed stuff and he's totally into it. It's like he was too young to realize who  exactly he just got to meet but it was pretty amazing for all of us to see. The show was awesome and frankly Im lucky I got to see him when I did. An absolute legend and evidently a good man. Just wanted to share my story about one of the greatest musicians of all time. His time left with us may be short but he has a legacy that will live on  First Ben E., and now it's not looking good for B.B. Someone needs to tell Kerry to watch out for the Angel of Death. First Ben E. King. Now BB King is deathly ill. Yet mother fucking Don King at 83 is still alive. There is no god.  Long live the King. The Achievement Hunter curse continues, he just featured in the 'Family Feud part 3' lets play. I saw BB King in college (early 90's).  He gave a talk, played some music.  Stuck with me all these years.  I'm grateful I got to see him in person.

That was the same year I saw Stevie Ray Vaughn play at VT.  Another sad case.... If you haven't listened to the first side of "Live at The Regal", you haven't lived. And if you're not jumping out of your seat when he finishes the last verse of "How Blue Can You Get", you are not alive. I have been lucky enough to see Mr. King play live three times. The performance that stands out was a night at the Providence Civic Center (Providence, RI). Stevie Ray Vaughn had passed the week prior. Mr. King came out on stage and explained that tonight was going to be a different show than he and his band usually performed, they were all playing with "heavy hearts", and he hoped we wouldn't mind. Instead of their normal upbeat and lively set, Mr King took a seat and he and his band played some of the most soulful slow-hand blues I had ever heard. They truly seemed to be playing for themselves and were giving enough to include us. So thankful to have witnessed such a night........... May you find peace Mr. King.     Paramedics checked King's heart rhythm

His heart **CREATED** rhythm. Bummer. One of the coolest people to ever walk the planet. Thanks for letting us know. I am so happy I got to see him play two years ago. I thought to myself how much longer he could keep going on, and how happy I was that I was able to see a living legend like that in my lifetime. God bless him. His music will live on forever.

My personal favorite performance:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LWLAAzOBoBI Living in Chicago, you kinda take him for granted. He was always at everything. 

My office was a short walk from where Blues fest was every year, and would walk over for a long lunch. I would time them to see him or Buddy Guy. 

He is getting up there, and the end might be near, but I hope he pulls through.  Dude is 89 years old. Dying is sad, but the man lived one hell of a life. Why is it sad?  The man has had one hell of a music career and has reached millions with that music.  Everyone gets old and dies (if they don't die prematurely) but not everyone has such a fulfilling life as Mr. King.  I'm not sad.  I'm glad, he made music that I have listened to my whole life, and even after he is gone his music will live on. I think losing someone to death, knowing they're no longer a living, breathing entity that can still impact this world, is sad at any age. B.B. is one of those guys you almost think will live and tour forever, just because he's been at it for so long regardless of his age, and that's such an amazing thing given the impact he's had on music. 

I do get you, though. Instead of being sad that he's on his deathbed, this is the time to remember his music and legacy, and be happy we got to experience it. It just hurts knowing that the end of that is here. I saw him play in 1994 and it was great! God bless him Everyone is acting like the man is already gone. Is hospice something that you can't come back from? Hospice means they stop trying to fix you. They only do it when they think they cannot save you.  Hospice is compassionate comfort. Right, some think it means you are on your own. While you may not see doctors as much anymore, you are still attended to and they make sure you are comfortable. It's a really hard choice to make, esp as a family mamber, but my experience is that they really make what little time you have left enjoyable. It's pretty unlikely at his age. Hospice implies that he can't take care of himself and the idea that he'd be able to recover from that to being able to play a show again... It's a stretch. Here's to hoping though!  Hospice is pretty final. Its free its so close. Though you can rebound and come out of there it's BBs last days.  Idk why people are saying unlikely because age or whatever. Hospice is literally the place they send you to make you comfortable as you wait to pass. If he had a chance he wouldnt be there. So no, barring a miracle, its not something you can come back from. Its a matter of time now.  People can live a considerably long time in hospice care. It could just means that he is no longer seeking treatment for anything and is willing to let life take its course.People can live for years in hospice. The best way I can put it to you is, judging by the last photo we saw of him before he went into hospice care, he looked like the last image of Steve Jobs, withered, tired, ready to go. He gave it all.  Godspeed. It is highly unlikely. If he ever plays a show again, you better see it, because it will be one of the last ones ever. I will miss this man when he goes. At his age with his illnesses ... Not a good chance.  Hospice is where no other medical interventions, aside from pain control and comfort, will be performed. Death is expected within six months of being put on hospice. I know a guy who has been on hospice for about a year now. So it's end of life care but there is no telling really when the end will be unless your family or on the inside. I hate Mondays... saw him for my birthday a few years back and he played for a solid two hours. holy shit it was incredible  Don't know a thing or two about his music, but I watched him play at my university two years ago and he is quite the entertainer. Admittedly I accepted the tickets last minute and had no idea what to expect, but for my first concert I got to enjoy a legend play music from a genre I had never explored. I hope he is surrounded by loved ones at his home. See ya later B.B. B.B was a great supporter of a charity I sometimes work with and helped us raise a whole bunch of money. I've met B.B a few times, I even got my picture in the paper with him (sadly my hair was ridiculous at the time).    
 It was always a short meet&amp;greet kind of thing when I saw him, and I always felt sort of silly cause I never knew what to say to him, other than than how much I appreciated his charity, and his music. I never know what to say to famous people, especially ones that have done so much and been so many places. B.B was always very friendly though, he felt almost grandfatherly in how open and genial he was.
       
B.B's been struggling for a few years now, he couldn't even stand for most of the shows he put on but every time I saw him on stage he would do his damnedest to put on a good show, and he always succeeded.
     
I don't know what else to say, I wish him all the best and if it's his time to go, I hope he goes painlessly and with a smile on his face. I wonder how Lucille is doing? I originally hopped in this thread to post this but figured others already beat me to it. A part of me hopes she winds up in the Smithsonian. Part of me hopes she gets passed around the world and every guitarist in the world gets to strum her once. Odds are they will bury her with him.  Every guitar he has is named Lucille.  There are hundreds at least. His live should be celebrated. He is 89 years old and was still playing concerts. Yes, it is sad to hear about a musical legend, falling ill. But he was able to play music and do what he loved as long as he could. Let's celebrate all the wonderful thing he did. One of my favorite of his performances, just watch as Jimmy reacts at the end of the song (the guitar player) just astounding.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=An6C8CYF4vU     I honestly hope the Internet's collective snarkyness goes away for a few days after this. I know poking fun at others misfortunes is kind of reddit's thing, but I suspect that many, myself included, have nothing but good memories of king's music and reading this has made me very sad my entire guitar playing style originated with bb king. Everytime I play a pentatonic, i play a BB king lick. I owe my entire electric guitar playing life to this dude. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Ny5ajCn0xw

this is the video that seriously changed my life. I saw it and i HAD to learn the blues, I was a wee lad but i knew the undeniable greatness that unfolded in front of my 56k which left to load for half an hour.

It's a sad day for music.   I saw BB about 10 years ago at Indiana University. Great fucking show. Picture me, a big Puerto Rican dude with tattoos and 1 inch gauges in my ears sitting next to a hippie and an old dude in a 3 piece suit. That man could bring together the world. The blues are going to feel a little more bluesy without him.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-i6BdmIiilo The guy lived to be 89 so far, had a great career, and experienced more great things then most of us probably will in his life. Not so sad. His name just came up in a Roosterteeth Let's Play.  It's happening again. Live in Cook County Jail is one of my favorite albums of all time. Thanks for the tunes, B.B. He touched my life in profound ways. I grew up listening to my dad play King's tunes on his Gibson... Fuck. I'm crying.

King, I wish you could read this.. Your sound will forever play in my head, along with millions of others whom love you as I do. Jam on brother. Jam on. One of the many King's of blues! May he pass without pain, and in the comfort of his loved ones. I saw him at Chastain Park in Atlanta in 2005. It was several years after I began playing guitar and this man made such a profound impact on me that it really changed how I heard and ultimately defined music. B.B. is the original and it breaks my heart to hear this news. 

From a grateful guitarist, thank you B.B. King. The first concert I ever attended was B.B. King at Orchestra Hall in Minneapolis, probably sometime around '95 or '96. I can still remember the chill I got when he started playing that guitar. He inspired a lifelong love of the blues for me, and he will be missed. My dad's a huge BB fan, we've had an autographed poster displayed proudly in our home as long as I can remember. Always wanted to see him, but I missed him last time he came near me, figuring since he played so many shows he'd come back soon. So it goes I guess. We love you B.B.!!! First concert my parents ever took me to. Amazingly talented man. Thrill is Gone. Love you, BB. Talk about a man that was in touch with his soul not to mention most of the worlds...I hear a random BB king song on the radio the other day I had not heard in forever. I had to simply pull over and enjoy it! Bless GOOD music and art! Sad to hear.  Never got to see him live but have seen so many of his performances.  Thrill is Gone live with Gary Moore (RIP) was just legendary, helped get me into Blues.       

Do not go gentle into that good night.   God bless.    He was the last of ['The Three Kings'](http://api.ning.com/files/18Ac6arAjPh4ytwfq7h-THPHYE4ie9QaPnJy68dU-Cw-vVQr8q1sOmFYoBqVhB2vCZS3dcI2v1MTs-Qy1zQhIrq1uTajSj8h/tumblr_lxz6daqHCU1qll1ero1_500.jpg). Rest in Peace B.B.

In case people were curious:

[Albert](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wdDRCIEEZ3w)

[Freddie](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CiUPyrMA78Q) Can we have a conversation about Lucille?
What happens to her when he passes?
 Saw him play in 2012. Had a bad memory, couldn't really stand, and the show lasted maybe 35 minutes, but goddamn, he could still play. He still had it. He played with a pretty crazy amount of gain.  The dude is in his 80's, he made wonderful music, and I am sure he has lived a great life.  Saw him twice about a year apart, maybe 3 and 4 years ago. The decline in that year even was noticeable. I'm glad I got to see him, but even his last album is about preparing his grave. Some people are just ready to go.

Buddy Guy blew me away though. First time I saw BB was at the Schaefer Beer Music Festival in Central Park in 1974 I believe. Sitting in a tree watching the band, smoking a doob. God bless you BB. We love  you.  I heard BB at his NYC club, and it was literally one of the highlights of my life, surpassing other now-legendary performances.  The perfect balance of the King and the bands and his tone throughout...unmatched.  BB has probably the best live guitar sound of all time, sorry to those who missed it, because you can't really understand the magnitude of the man without having been face-to-face and ear-to-ear with him.  BB's realness is his soul, it cannot be transcribed onto a record, the blues must live in him and in us forever.

I vow to honor BB when I get the chance, not just on a dumb reddit coment.  I can't really describe what I feel in words anyway, if you'll forgive me.

BB: the *ne plus ultra* of the blues.   Very sad. The finest storyteller I have ever heard. I had the pleasure of seeing him in the late 90s, Lucille in hand, at a very small venue. I treasure the memory as one of my favorite shows of all time. The man is a legend, a bard, and an entertainer extraordinaire. Heaven is going to be so much cooler when he earns his wings. Thank you, Mr King.  He was my first concert. I was about 7 I believe, it was an outdoor concert that my dad took me to. I really wish I remembered more specifics about it now, but I do remember thinking he was fantastic, and he shaped many of my music choices. A man finds joy in learning and performing music. He spreads joy wherever he goes. He lives a long and happy life. He has time near the end to say goodbye and 'I love you' to those who matter. 

That's not sad. That's poetic.  Hope he can leave this world comfortably. Thank you for everything Mr. King. Rt claims another.  I gaaaaaave you seven children and now you want to get them back As cheesy as it sounds, I'm hoping that he is buried holding Lucille. We will miss you BB.  Why is this sad?

The man lived an incredible, fulfilling, and downright lucky life. Whats sad are the people that dont.  After seeing Buddy Guy (twice), B.B. was next on my list of greats to see. I'm greatly saddened about his health. He was a cornerstone for all music in the past 70 years. There's no denying that his condition is serious and that unfortunately it's unlikely he'll ever improve, however as someone who used to work for hospice there's no reason to mourn him just yet. I've seen many patients live on hospice care for months if not years and still have many wonderful and fulfilling days where they're just bursting with life. I'm sure Mr. King is probably one of those people as well. The word 'legend' is overused nowadays. 

In this case it's appropriate. 

Thanks for everything.  I was privileged to have seen him play a few years back in one of the most acoustically perfect venues around these parts.  Wish all the best for BB and his family. It really is a stormy monday God Bless Him. With love, from West Palm Beach. BB has played at the facility I work at on several occasions. He is, by far, the most cool and down to earth guy you could ever meet. Not one single sliver of ego or contempt-for-the-little-people to be found. Back in the early 2000's, I was a stage manager at a concert venue and set up for a B.B. King show. It was probably the biggest named artist that my crew was responsible for nearly the entire set up. We used all our house sound gear and all the equipment was backline(rental gear) which was not usual for an artist of his caliber. He traveled pretty light, the only equipment he carried was Lucille and his amp.
      We had everything set and ready for soundcheck by the time his crew arrived, and they were very impressed with how spot on of a set up we did, and relayed that to Mr. King. He was so pleased that he invited my crew and I backstage to hang out after the show. Such a genuinely nice guy, which was also not usual for an artist of his caliber. You COULD be sad.. or you could reflect back on all the great, no wait.. legendary, music he played and smile instead. 
 Saw him at jazz fest 2-3 years ago in the big tent. Best concert I've ever seen, he had masterful stage presence even at 87 I went to go see him in 1998 or 99 cause I wanted to before I couldnt again. 

And here he was still touring into 2014... 

I hope that the rest of BB's days are easy ones, if theres 1 or 1000 left. A sad day indeed. I'm privileged to have seen him play live more than a few times over the years. He was truly a gifted guitarist and a soulful player. I hope his last moments are peaceful.  TIL Most people in here do not know what hospice is I saw B.B's show in Dublin many years ago. (When love came to town) A truly great team! To this day the most solid performers I've ever encountered. That drummer of his was pure magic. Listen to his fills during the fade at the end of Hummingbird and tell me it doesn't make the hair stand up :o Back in the 70s 80s BB King used to regularly play gigs at the River Queen in downtown Grand Forks, North Dakota.  This nodak girl's intro to the blues, what a lesson.

I wish peace for him, his family and us all. I loved when he would play in Indianola and you could hear him from my grandparent's front porch. Best part of the summer. If you're ever in the neighborhood check out the BB King museum. It's worth the walk through. I was just talking to a few friends about making a painting based on B.B. Kings songs and few days ago and then I hear this sad story.. 

May his last days be blessed with family and friends love and definitely will be paying tribute to him. 

Blues Legend always  This is my little tribute to him while he is till on this earth: https://watchingthewheelsdad.wordpress.com/2015/05/12/oh-i-get-it-moment-1-b-b-king-and-the-lady-in-the-purple-hat/ Very nice article sir!  Love me some blues so this is incredibly sad news. But then if I live to be 89 I'd say I had a pretty good life. I'm sure he would agree too. Why is this sad? He's aged and lived his life.  Celebrate what he's done not what he's become.    Don't cry because it's over,  
smile because it happened.  
-Dr. Suess You know full well why it's sad. Why do people ask this?  
You're allowed to be sad  I had an opportunity to see BB King in Washington DC back in about 1991. Unfortunately I was violently ill for a few days before (and after) the show and wasn't able to attend. I've not been in the right place at the right time to see BB King since, which I'm absolutely gutted about. Of all the musicians I would have loved to have seen play live, BB King is the one. Years ago I was in Crestview, FL, on my way to visit my in laws on New Years Eve.  Had been working all day and hadn't stopped, so on my way I figured I'd stop in and grab something.  It was about 11:30 PM at this point.  Whataburger was kinda new to the area, plus I had to pee so I went inside.  As I was waiting for my stuff, a big, jolly, black guy (looked kinda like Huell from Breaking Bad) opened both the doors and said, "Hey we gonna ring in the new year witcha!"...and behind him you could see a big tour bus in the parking lot and a bunch of other guys walking right behind him...and one of those guys was BB King.  I couldn't believe it.  Got to shake his hand and tell him how much Ioved his work, he smiled, and wished me a Happy New Year.  Seemed like he loved what he was doing, out on the road with his boys, and loving every minute.   Makes me sad to see this now, but I wish the man peace in his passing, and his legacy and art will live on forever! I had the privilege of seeing B.B. in 2005 at the House of Blues in Atlantic City. It was one of my first concerts and we waited in line for the doors to open and got a place right in front of the stage. It was close to his 80th birthday and a lot of his family was there and brought out a cake for him on stage. Kenny Wayne Shepherd opened for him and after BB's set, he invited Kenny back out to the stage and they played until 2 AM. I still have a shirt from that show and even though it doesn't fit anymore I'll never throw it out. That night holds a special place in my heart and I feel lucky to have a memory of BB as cool as that.  One of the greatest guitarists to grace us with his unparalleled vibrato and overall feel. I'll be raising a glass of whiskey while listening to your music King. Cheers We at least he had a chance to say good bye I met him after his show at a casino in NY in 2007. Very friendly man to myself and my family. I was 12/13 at the time. This headline should probably have ended with "...for now." Wouldn't surprise me if they kill it temporarily and then in X number of years start hyping "the return of the show that swept the nation" to try and manufacture some interest back into it. This.  I've been saying since season 2, they need to only do it once every 3-5 years.  You can't cram that shit down everyone's throats every year, year after year.  Give it some time.  Coddle your winner, promote their shit for a few years.  Then, when the next 'season' comes up, you can say look at "X", it's time to find another "X". And then you can stick roman numerals at the end of the title for each season to make it look even more impressive! American Idol Bowl XXI But who sings the National anthem? Who performs at halftime?  They all do. In creepy unison... Is it hard to fuck wizards?  We do it not because it is easy, but because it is hard.

                                                       -JFK That's a good idea, there would be a lot more hype and talent with that format. They actually have to find a star then, which is not as easy as it seems. A lot of acts are dropped by labels, even acts being led by top producers, just because a lot can go wrong when building an act you hope to make millions for a set of years. It's a lot easier to just find things that make great television such as terrible singers/performers you love to laugh at, talented singers with great stories, or people who are good at singing but mostly there because they are attractive. More to play with, and more immediate profits with less risk. Those poor studio execs, when they find a talented singer that's missing hollywood looks... We're visual creatures and easily persuaded at a young age, which is why the target market for the music industry is usually young audiences. We like attractive looks more than we do actual talent. As long as you look the part and have somewhat decent talent, marketing and promotions can do the rest. An example of someone who looks the part, but not the best singers: Selena Gomez, Justin Beiber. Example of artists with great talent, but not the best appeal: Susan Boyle, Dixie Chicks (spoke out against the war and lost their act). The Susan Boyle situation was so delicately handled in terms of PR.  about time. It's crazy. I don't know if it was just my family, but at the time American Idol came out it seemed like everybody loved it. Now everybody (myself included) seems just annoyed with the show altogether. Did you know *Who Wants to Be a Millionaire* is still going? And hosted by Terry Crews? [I thought you were joking.](http://cmgajcradiotvtalk.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/terry-crews-millionaire.jpg)  

I kinda wanna see this now. Terry Crews is my man crush. I used to work on the show, and I can tell you first hand that Terry did an amazing job with the season. It's a shame that he's not returning for season 14 though due to all of his scheduling conflicts. It actually sounds like a good idea to keep getting different celebrities to do it every season. Danny Trejo for next host! Clint Eastwood. He'll be the most enthusiastic host we've had in a while. Then put a large square of astro turf under the the contestants chair so Clint can tell them to get the fuck off his lawn every time they lose.
 "Do you feel lucky, punk?"

"Mr. Eastwood, I already told you twice that it's my final answer. Can we please continue?" https://i.imgur.com/pKnRM.gif I think it's been proven that anything involving Clint talking to a chair is a bit risky. "Is that your final answer? PUNK?"  Yeah they won't even need contestants. Just him and the hot seat. How does it work in America? In the German version we have just on guy, who has been doing it since forever and he's one of the biggest celebrities in german TV. [We had one of those in America, but eventually he went away.](http://www.vh1.com/celebrity/bwe/images/2011/10/REGIS-PHILBIN-SHIRTLESS-1319738625.jpg) It's never been the same without Reege. Meredith actually hosted Millionaire considerably longer (11 seasons) than Regis, who only hosted for 3 (plus the Super Millionaire specials in 2004). We have some shows that work that way. Pat Sajak has been hosting Wheel of Fortune for a super long time, as did Bob ~~Hope~~ Barker on the Price Is Right. Bob ~~Hope~~ Barker isn't doing the show anymore, but he was replaced by comedian and relatively well-known name, Drew Carey. It seems like a lot of actors, comedians and particularly celebrities whose careers have been slow in the last decade, seem to be popping up as game show hosts left and right.

EDIT: Wrong name! Bob Barker was the Price is Right guy.  Bob Hope was an old comedian who died nearly 15 years ago. Regis Philbin was the first and most iconic host but the show was barely treading water and was frequently in a limbo state of being cancelled and revived (sometimes with a twist to drive up ratings). Philbin left and there's been a steady stream of replacement hosts ever since.

Millionaire is an outlier. Most North American game shows hold on to their hosts for a *LONG* time. It's actually a bit funny. Is it really? Yes
 That's fucking hilarious.  I need to check it out. [Yup](https://cmgajcradiotvtalk.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/terry-crews-millionaire.jpg) *"Unfortunately you didn't win any money"...*


*"That's ok Terry, sides of a triangle aren't my strong suit but at least I got to hang out with you!"* President Camacho hosting Millionaire. The game format is a neutered shadow of the original format I knew and loved though. What significant changes are there? 14 questions instead of 15. But the value of the first 10 questions are chosen at random from a list of values between $100 and $25000. In total they make about $60k from the first 10 question, although if you decide to leave at any time, the amount of money you get is split in half. Also if you get any question wrong you walk away with a sad amount of money rather than having the $1000 and $32000 checkpoints.  I think most people really enjoyed it when it first came out, I know I watched it the first season.  After that though it just became the same old thing rehashed every season with the same dumb songs just new faces.  I wish a lot of shows would just die out early in honor instead of being driven into the ground trying to bilk every last dollar possible. [deleted] Also, many of the people that did get careers post-AI were eliminated.  They may have all cracked the Top 10 though. Only three contestants ever really made a career: Kelly Clarkson, Carrie Underwood, and Chris Daughtry. You could make a case for Adam Lambert but I feel like his 15 minutes has already ended too.  Clay Aiken is still pretty well known. Maybe not in the music industry, but he is around.  Jennifer Hudson? Adam has got some hits. What do you want from him? Pretty sure Lambert just fronted Queen on tour.  Phil Phillips first album went platinum Jordin Sparks, Jennifer Hudson too  [deleted] &gt;I used to be super into squirting porn and instantly became disgusted by it when I learned its mostly just urinating.

Same boat here, except replace "disgusted by" with "even more into." After I learned "squurting'' was mostly piss, I was hooking up with this chick and she said "oh my god, you're gona make me squirt" and I remember thinking in my head ".... please don't pee on me." I dated (still date, actually) a chick who would sometimes have to piss during sex, and instead of taking a bathroom break she'd just gamble with how much she could piss while telling me she was squirting. And I think we both knew the other one knew, but she never felt the need to confess until we realized we were both cool with watersports.

She'd been intentionally pissing in the bed or all over me for *years* and never thought she needed to say anything. &gt; She'd been intentionally pissing in the bed

I'm hoping you've either got rubber sheets or change mattresses once a week, otherwise you've got a stinky ass bedroom situation going on! god, your mattress must be disgusting as fuck what an asshole Normally piss doesn't come from there Came in reading about American Idol, left talking about piss and Terry Crews hosting Who Wants To Be A Millionaire. 

Weird.  Exactly! It's so unusual! What an asshole! Ignorance is bliss &gt;ignorance is piss Squirting comes from the bladder. It's been proven. There's no other organ in the pelvic area capable of housing that amount of liquid, nor expelling it with enough force to "squirt" out. 

Whether it's urine or not is a question that people are still debating, and it depends on what you define as urine. But either way, squirting porn is not much different than the "real" thing.  All I know is my girlfriend likes to do it.  So whether it's peeing, or cumming, or baking a potato, I'm happy she does it because it improves her sexual experience.  And that's important to me because I can only last like 6 minutes.  This thread was originally about American Idol. Lmao holy shit. I was reading the comments and forgot the original post I was wondering why I was in /r/Music. Mine is more into the act of baking a potato for sexual gratification. I don't have the slightest clue how this works for her. But the female mind is a complicated thing, and hey, free potato. Latvian GF problems. Is no sex potato. Only malnourish. Nothing wrong with it at all. I mean, the bladder is one of the most sterile sites in the body. In a world where anal sex is a thing, squirting can be considered almost tame. Keep on doing what feels good.  I'M IN THAT WEIRD PART OF REDDIT AGAIN

I was just here to wish good riddance to AI... goddammit I completely forgot the topic was about American Idol after reading all the replies in this branch and the next branch came back to the topic and I was like *wtf does American Idol have to do with squirting?* Paraphrasing a bit, can't find the quote.

"American Idol has found all the talent in America.  There is nothing left.  At this point American Idol only exists to airlift gay teens out of the American midwest and bring them to LA for a few weeks.  It's 'Birthright Israel' for my other people."

-A gay jewish comedian.  Cannot find his name.

(For anyone who is lost on the context, Birthright Israel is a charity that helps Jewish young adults visit Israel.) That show hasn't produced a major star in years - it's basically 2 hrs. a week of product placement.  They've long lost the younger demographic that advertisers want ... the majority of people who watch talent shows like Idol are everyone's aunts who also send you constant Facebook invites to play Cookie Jam.

After the original panel disbanded they should've let the show bow out gracefully.  Instead, it overstayed its welcome and no one takes stock in the contestants/winners anymore.

Also, with the boom of video sharing and "going viral," people have learned that shows like this are not worth it, when you can post your own stuff on YouTube and be discovered without the hoops of a network or label. &gt; should've

Instead they made millions and millions of dollars running it into the ground. Not much incentive on television to bow out gracefully. That kind of artistic integrity is just too expensive.  True.  From a business standpoint, it was very tempting to keep it on the air and bleed it dry, which is what they did.  BUT, are they thinking long-term?  They went for a decade of money, but have they now completely destroyed the "singing competition" genre for Fox?  I guess we'll see.  &gt;are they thinking long-term? They went for a decade of money.    

If your name is listed anywhere on that project you're probably set for life. &gt; when you can post your own stuff on YouTube and be discovered without the hoops of a network or label.

See: Justin Bieber. To be fair, he really embodied why we really don't need "reality talent shows" like AI in the 2010s.. If he weren't such an idiot, I think a lot of people (besides his Bieblers or whatever) would've supported him, including many on reddit (wow, did I just sort of defend Bieber?). Imagine a world where Justin Bieber never tried to gain "street cred" by dressing like a thug.  He goes to Children's hospital's between shows to surprise sick Beileibers.  Appears in nightclubs in disguise to chill with fans.  Does the odd SNL bit for lols.  And adds something meaningful to the on-going discussion of music as art, not a record company's cash grab. So, Justin Timberlake? Let's just pause for a moment and reminisce warmly about how Justin Timberlake surpassed all of our expectations. Right? I saw some movie with him and mila kunis ... no idea what it was, but it was hilarious. "That was the guy we made fun of ten years ago for being a nobody?" Yes but younger, able to capture a whole different generation of fans. So another Justin Timberlake? He started in 1995 with NSync and is still pretty popular in solo music and acting, including a few pretty big movies. That's a pretty good run, and he actually has some talent unlike a lot of the young upstarts that get popular for 10 minutes these days.
 Don't forget to that he would need to show Janet Jackson's titty to the world in order to go full Timberlake.   I still submit that we would all love Bieber if he decided to mentor with Timberlake instead of Usher. Hell he would probably be in a bunch of movies by now instead of just getting killed on CSI. &gt; He goes to Children's hospital's between shows to surprise sick Beileibers.

Bieber holds the record for the most Make-A-Wish wishes granted by a recording artist (200+). It's easy to forget, but when Bieber's first video started hitting it big online, there was a ton of support from the internet community that one of "the little guys online" was making it big. I wasn't an avid redditor at the time, but I can't imagine him being immediately discredited here. That came much later, when it became apparent that he was a huge tool bag. Don't worry, you only defended how Justin Bieber came to be, not how he *is*. dafuq is cookie jam [deleted] An ungodly reincarnation of Bejeweled.  &gt; the majority of people who watch talent shows like Idol are everyone's aunts who also send you constant Facebook invites to play Cookie Jam.

My mom is in her 50s and absolutely loves American Idol.  She bought Scotty McCreery's new single right when it came out.  Meanwhile I don't know anyone my age who still watches American Idol. I'll believe it when it actually happens.  Gotta doubletap zombies to be sure. Aiken Army. Never forget.  Claymates I hate that one of my favorite video games as a child has been appropriated by middle aged white women.  Ruben Studdard for life.  I get chills just seeing his name. I get hungry  For...2004? Soul Patrol 4 Life  They quit showing the bad auditions and got canceled shortly after... Maybe we need a "Bad Audition Idol"! The thing that always bothered me about that show is that those people in the "bad auditions" had already sung in front of other judges/producers before then. So they were passed on thru for the sake of entertainment. I feel bad for those people. I KNOW I can't sing but I do for fun in the car and to entertain myself or my kid I guess. If I thought I could sing and auditioned and went on to sing for the cameras only to later find out that it was just to make fun of me on primetime tv, i probably wouldn't sing much anymore.  Yeah that always bothered me. I know a radio station sent an intern to audition, Kristen. She did a flashdance routine I believe and yanked velcro pants off. She said she went through three auditions prior to the judges and they all built her up, told her she was so good! They didn't only pick bad singers they convinced or tried to convince them they were amazing. Probably explains why so many people looked crushed and confused when the judges told them they sucked. She at least knew she was bad. Made it on air too. Simon asked if it was a joke, being an ass as usual, but then played like he knew she was a plant. Makes you wonder if Paula was so nice, because she at least felt bad these young people were being manipulated and made to look bad for entertainment. Simon looks even more like a bastard when the truth is the show set up these people for him to scream at. Actually I think this is the main reason people prefer the Voice. It focused on talent from the start and not staged "bad" auditions. People on reddit who have tried out mentioned that people who didn't make it on a real audition will be asked to stick around and do a bad audition just to air it on tv. 

Anybody can sing badly...it stopped being funny after William Hung actually made an album off of it.  2004s "The WB's Superstar USA". Can they also cancel Ryan Seacrest? Do you ever watch people who are forced into hosting things? Ryan is actually pretty good at it - compared to the utter fail that Khloe Kardashian was at the X-Factor.  Erin Andrews is pretty bad at it too. He thinks pretty quick on his feet, witty, etc.

Although my ultimate host of hosts is currently Tom Bergeron. Tom don't fuck around with his witty retorts. Quick on the draw and his sexual chemistry with Bruno on Dancing with the Stars is just en fuego I don't even watch that show, but Tom and Bruno are fucking amazing. Cat Deeley is amazing. She has been the host of "So You Think You Can Dance" since the show's inception. I'm still shocked to see how enthusiastic/stunning she is after 11 SEASONS.  &gt;Although my ultimate host of hosts is currently Tom Bergeron.

Cat Deely. Cat Deely's host game is tip top notch!  Make fun of Seacrest all you want, but he's actually very good at what he does. He's a pretty smart businessman as well. He has his small, under-developed hands in a lot of different production companies and business ventures and he's probably making much more from that than he is from hosting.  &gt; small, undeveloped hands

fucking rofl He's an executive producer of the kardashians' shows. That probably nets him quite a bit of cash nope, he is the next Dick Clark. Ryan pretty much owns and operates America's propaganda mainstream entertainment media. and though cable TV is a dying breed, he will go where the money still is.

I bet on something VR, last one there is a rotten egg. &gt;Ryan pretty much owns and operates America's propaganda mainstream entertainment media. 

OPEN YOUR EYES PEOPLE *sheeple https://xkcd.com/1013/ He's got his own talk show slot in the AM over here in Southern California , it's pretty successful and ppl love it.  The same show is also syndicated to about 150 radio stations in the US.  All due respect to Carson, but I think Ryan would kill it hosting The Voice. &gt; All due respect to Carson

And that's the only time that phrase has ever been uttered for Carson Daly. 

Seriously, I don't think I've actually seen that guy since the late 90s. He was poised to be the next huge late night guy.  Carson Daly is only remote famous because he was Jimmy Kimmel's intern. 

But when you actually watch Daly's body of work, he's not actually talented. He used to have great music guests on his late night show, but he was ABYSMAL at actually interviewing them. It's like he got in the door for being the "cool kid" but that persona just never amounted to anything.  The only reason I know who he is was TRL I only know who he his because Slim wanted to sit next to him and Fred Durst, hear them argue over who ~~Brittney~~ Christina gave head to first. I believe it was Christina Aguilera whose head giving was in question. Slim would be sat next to Britney Spears, then "Christina Aquilera better switch me chairs" so he can sit next to Carson Daly and Fred Durst. Carson Daly makes Bob Costas look like Sid Vicious. I think they need to bring back Brian Dunkelman to co-host the last season.  i didn't realize it was still on. Did you know that survivor is still on and in its 30th season? And still killing it The current season is so good. Cannot wait for next season with so many returning favorites. The list of who you can vote for is fuckin bonkers good. I'm ok with survivor because it is actually something different most every game. You can usually figure out who is going to win idol pretty quickly by just finding the most generic artist. They are good at all types of music but don't really shine in a specific genre. There are some exceptions but for the most part that's how it goes. 

Survivor has people that try different strategies to win and there are unforseen circumstances that change the game like injuries and people getting double crossed. I haven't watched it since the season where James came back and injured his knee. Not because I don't like the show anymore, I just don't really keep up with any shows anymore. For some reason I watched a season a couple years ago and it was just as enjoyable as ever. Like you said, I just don't have the commitment to watch every week. Using "season" makes it sound longer. It's been on for 15 years. Exactly, they make 2 "seasons"/year.  15 years is still a long time, and I still like it enough to be watching it 15 years later... YES and it is hitting a second stride. /r/survivor And speaking of /r/survivor, a bunch of people from recent seasons post there regularly. I've been fanboying so much recently.  Their interactions with each other have showed some pretty cool insight into off camera stuff and been downright amusing. Spencer trying to troll Kass in her AMA was epic.
 Yeah, but Survivor is entertaining as hell still. 

American Idol is the TV equivalent of trying to watch a TV ad on YouTube, but you need to get past the YouTube ad to see the video. Yeah me too. I thought American Idol evolved into The Voice.
Still never watched a single episode. No way, The Voice actually takes the formula for that type of show and does it RIGHT. First and foremost by having all the judges being actually vocally talented or producers of huge vocal talent. The current idol judges are some of the must weak vocalists out there.  The voice had a great idea but in the end the only people to benefit are the judges. Their careers got even bigger from that show. Without looking it up I can't name a single contestant from the voice. I can probably name a dozen contestants from American idol and I only watched part of one season of that. I watched the first two seasons of the voice.   You are 100% correct with that. The Voice definitely makes it all about the judges. Which is weird because the level of talent on the Voice this year makes Idol look like my son's 5th grade talent show.  That's probably smart, though, on NBC's side. They're the consistent presence on the show, while the contestants run through every year. Yea, the voice isn't about the singers, it's about the coaches. Whenever they are singing it's like their name in small letters and then "TEAM ADAM." And "TEAM ADAM" is on all the screens while they are singing etc.  Nobody from The Voice has ever done much of anything, though a couple of the country girl winners from the middle seasons have made modest careers for themselves. It's not a great format for the contestants.

I think the bigger problem these shows face is that in the era of social media, the best contestants they used to get now just break through online instead and get snapped up quickly by a label.  Is Harry Connick Jr still there? Because that guy is definitely qualified to judge. He knows what he's talking about, and has a nice voice too. The others I couldn't care less for. Yes! He's the only judge that judges critically, as opposed to Jennifer Lopez and Keith Urban's "feelings".  Who are the current judges of American Idol? Keith Urban, Jennifer Lopez, Harry Connick, Jr.  For the past few years it seems the judges on American Idol are waning entertainers looking for a free outlet for their latest albums while getting paid a shit ton of money at the same time. needed more Paula Abdul. 
 oh my god that's right, she was in it once, i completely forgot. ahhh. those were the days. simon, the black guy and paula. really set the bar for stereotypes on future music show judges. Randy Jackson, dawg That was a little pitchy for me, dawg. For me, for you, dawg...  Randy Jackson! 

also, yeah lol the amount of mock/satire in 2000's pop-culture, resulting from the obvious push for cultural diversity, became humorously stereotypical. that dynamic truly made the show prosper tho.  Randy Newman. I stopped watching after Simon left. He was the only one on the judges' table who had the knowledge and the honesty to effectively judge that performers that were put in front of him.  Watching Paula get progressively more wasted as the night went on was pretty fun too. You just know shes drinking rum and coke out of those huge coca cola cups I started watching the show again specifically for Harry connick Jr.  My wife watched religiously for years,  I saw one episode a few years ago when he was the mentor.  He laid into the performers and the judges. It was amazing.  Now,  he provides the actual critical comments and musical knowledge,  and is funny. The rest of the show sucks though.  I never watched the show but will it be missed? Some alums have gone on to have incredible careers, but the vast majority are regulated to one Ford commercial and disappear. But the first few seasons produced quite a few powerhouses in an array of genres and I don't know if they would have been as successful otherwise.  The show is a bit of a conundrum for viable contestants. Anyone truly talented enough to win the contest is better off not going on the show and signing themselves away. Furthermore, it seems that more often than not the winners or contestants on the show don't go on to greener pastures. When it's all said and done, anyone who is serious about breaking into the industry should avoid American Idol or The Voice at all costs. &gt; avoid American Idol or The Voice at all costs.

True.  The music industry already takes new artists and squeezes them for as much as they are worth before discarding them and leaving them with nothing.  It's even worse when the music industry AND TV industry are doing it simultaneously.    Even worse when the squeezing is done in a fraction of the timespan, before the career's even started. There was a point in time when American Idol was attracting an obscene amount of eyeballs, somewhere around 40 million in the early/mid 2000s. Needless to say, with that amount of attention combined with the audience voting on their "favorite" contestant, the sheer ubiquity of the show carried a lot of the alums into popular music careers, win or lose. That American Idol notoriety quickly dissipated, starting with the departure of Simon Cowell. I think it'll be remembered for its hay day, but no one will actually care or remember that it's gone.  Relegated, not regulated.  People are saying "GOOD! ABOUT TIME!" but it's not like anything worth watching will be put on in its place. It's amazing that in 2015 with all the on-demand services available, people are still willing to spend their evening in front of the TV with a remote control settling for "whatever's on" People's schedules actually revolve around their favorite programming. I have a friend, mid 30s, who has to be home at certain times for certain shows. It's his routine or tradition or whatever. Say what you may about American Idol.  There was a time when it was must watch TV.  I remember everyone being fascinated by it, and the show produced some genuine stars.

 [Dave like this](http://i.imgur.com/fQuMK4E.jpg) eum..this quote if correct, kind of seems close minded. I think that hs is right in a way that you can become a big band by just doing it yourself. But I think that some talent need that extra boost to get where they need to be. You can use all sorts of platforms, internet, american idol, garage playing. If you have talent and you work hard enough, someone will find you and give you that break. I think he's talking more about teenagers who want to become singers or musicians, the kind of path that's laid out for them when they make that decision.

Nowadays the idea of 'making it' is to go on one of these shows, sing your heart out for 2 minutes at best and go through this false dichotomy of success / failure. If your heart is in it, it shouldn't matter whether the FOX audience, Paula Abdul or your next door neighbor is listening, you should just play and go through all the motions required to improve because that's how you get good at anything. Only a small percentage of people are born with an innate capability to sing. Most of the rest learn after sucking for a long time. American Idol teaches you that it's not ok to suck (ok, except for that one guy early on who was so awful he got signed as a joke).

It's taking away the focus from showing up every day and putting in the time. Don't get me wrong, a lot of people do just that *before* going on American Idol and manage to have successful careers, but the number is so low that it's negligible and most importantly they're not teenagers; that's the case you're talking about with taking advantage of all mediums. If you're already doing small shows and people like what you have to offer you might as well go on American Idol and sing for the judges. 

I am positive that most people who do audition end up having a different experience. When the network builds a narrative around the success stories they're so celebrated that anybody with a decent voice wants to live it. The average, uneducated 'good singer' nowadays would rather give it one shot on American Idol rather than sit in a basement for years practicing scales and actually becoming good enough; that's the instant gratification mentality we live in but it would have been unthinkable before American Idol existed.

If you go on American Idol and get rejected, it's likely that you'll look back on it as your 'one chance' and give up altogether because somebody with an agenda told you you're just 'not good enough', which is completely counterproductive to a life goal, especially early on in life. Dave's model is great for 1995. In an Internet era, there is much you can and should do as a musician to get exposure. You can't just be good; you have to market yourself.  Nirvana were also pretty lucky to be in the right place and the right time. In that they started in an up and coming genre of music and were in Seattle when it was one of the big centres for that music.

 About God damn time  Thank god what a terrible show Thank you God!!!!!! Now just kill off all it's bastard spinoff siblings, so I can have at least one night without channel surfing to avoid listening to this shit.... Let the downvotes begin... This should be under /r/upliftingnews  15 seasons and only 2 people actually have successful careers.  I'd say it's about time. I would also add people who didn't win but their career definitely bettered for it. Adam Lambert had a few hits and is currently a great frontman for Queen. I'm sure he would not be at this point in his career without the show. And definitely wouldn't be there if he won. Losing helped him more than winning. From Carrie Underwood's Wikipedia page: In January 2014 it was reported that Underwood topped the 2013 list of the highest-paid American Idol alumni, reportedly earning $31 million. This was not only more than any American Idol contestant, but it exceeded the annual earnings of 2013 judges Mariah Carey, Nicki Minaj, and Keith Urban.[322] It's always wild to me that Simon Cowell predicted this in 2005.

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t8e_l7fCX_E&amp;t=2m36s I miss Sanjaya.  Good. Thank goodness!  Remember that mediocre, generic sound you were looking for? Well, listen to this! Good. Finally. And there was much rejoicing.  thank fucking god.  maybe the eye of the public will turn to some worthwhile music now. About fucking time this shit ended. I don't even remember anyone who's won american idol.

So much for being an idol. Now they just need to get rid of The Voice. Market is so oversaturated. Has anyone even made it huge out of The Voice like say Kelly Clarkson, Jennifer Hudson, or Carrie Underwood?

I'm glad American Idol is gone, overstayed its welcome. But I can definitely see it coming back in a few years when all the singing shows have lost their luster and have been off the air for a bit. Good Finally, our long national nightmare has ended. Man, r/atheism is going to be pissed now that there's proof that there is a god.  American Idol hasn't been the same show since they completely changed the dynamic of the judge's table.  It was fun while it lasted, but it needs to be put down.  The difference between idol now and back then is simon cowell making hilarious remarks. They always had those funny auditions in the first episodes, but ever sine he left they have just focused on the good singers and not the bad, which is why over half of their audience left. Not to mention the jidges npw have absolutely no personality. The show may have run it's course, but one season I really liked this one singer, and I joined some shitty Facebook fanpage, and the singer wound up adding me on FB and sending me an autograph. 

I still have the autographed photo on my wall, so something good came from the show overstaying it's welcome. [deleted] Also, remember William Hung? The guy who sang the terrible version of Ricky Martin's "She Bangs?" Yeah that dude went on to sell 200,000 copies of his first album, all from a terrible audition being on air. 

I think the bad parts were the best parts... It is still going in the UK (as the X Factor). I really hope they call it a day there as well, but it must generate so much in advertising and through the X Factor tour that they just keep on flogging the dead horse. The winners seem to disappear, but a few have a small music career off the back of it who come 3rd or 4th. Like One Direction for example.  but...who will I idolize after its oveR? lets hope this is a tread to end all reality shows. ::crosses fingers:: FINALLY!!!!!! Cream on Chrome was so good. Can't wait for this. 

Edit: Also just looked, the opener Intro is on spotify now. Came out a couple days ago, and it's 1:02 so I think the clues here are pointing to it being just an intro.  &gt; it's 1:02 so I think the clues here are pointing to it being just an intro.

Really going out on a limb there. slow down sherlock, the rest of us are trying to catch up It's elementary as fuck, bitch.  Cream on chrome was amazing the first time I heard it. The first time the chorus hit... biggest smile on my face haha. I decided I shouldn't listen to it that much so I can know it within the context of the album instead of as a single, and it's been easier than I would've expected. 

Still think it's fucking awesome, but I'm hoping it's the main catchy single and that the rest of the album will get a lot weirder or slowed down or something. I duno, we'll see. I love the Bilar, Shiller, and Dura type of tracks, would really love to see some more of that direction. Or just something completely out of left field. I trust them to deliver, no matter what it is. Either way, so fucking happy they're FINALLY BACK! I think cream on chrome showed that ratatat could still do what they used to, but I was really hoping to see some development from them. It's been years since their last album and I want to know how they've grown as artists since then, not just see another album of the exact same instrumentation and song structures. I hear plenty of growth in Cream on Chrome. Maybe it's just me but It feels a good bit more complex than their previous stuff (which I also love).

But it still has that old Ratatat vibe. I am super excited to hear the rest of the new stuff. There are bits of it that feel different, but there are parts of it that feel like they literally copy/pasted from old songs I just started listening to them, most of their songs do sound the same... But I kind of like that, it's very recognizable and a good style. Cream on Chrome definitely has a very similar sound and the same complexity as their other songs. Again, I see that as a good thing.  I am going to Governor's Ball pretty much just to see them. I agree with you on the growth in sound and I'm super hoping to hear some of their new music next month.  I mean, this is Ratatat, development is not something *any* fan should expect from them. LP3 was a huge change in style from Classics. Yah for real. They start getting a tribal feel Just found these guys this year, is this an insult or a compliment? Lol their sound has stayed similar throughout the albums, but why not?  both I believe. Their songs def do tend to have quite repetitive/simple structures with minimum change-ups. Same sounds tend to get used frequently as well. i.e. signature distortion sound

I fuckin love them but this is why they get relatively lower replay value for me. Because does anyone really need 6+ albums of the same exact thing? Ooh guitar heavy sampling and the same distortion effects, every single time... After a while, you have gotten about as much steam as you're going to out of a gimmick. JMO, but I checked out with them about 2 albums ago. Only thing I can still stand to listen to are their biggie remixes. I like them, and I liked their new song too. It's a similar sound but it's never like the exact same thing. I don't get tired of them because I don't listen to them constantly, same with any band. They're very good if you listen to them off and on. Different ways of engaging with music. I tend to prefer listening to albums in whole, especially when they are new to me. Not something you can really do with ratatat without getting bored of feeling like you've heard it before. There's no joy left in the discovery. They have a pretty extensive body of work, but it's all more or less the same to me.  I appreciate and disagree with your opinion friend. Thanks. Not trying to arrange some sort of coalition against them, just stating how I feel about this latest development.  I don't understand why people use downvotes as a "disagree" button. Your opinion is legit, very similar to mine, and IMO it did contribute to the discussion (that would warrant an upvote, so have one).

That said, I do believe different albums/artists require different approaches. I felt the same after listening to "classics" full album, it got old quickly, but you can still appreciate lone classics (pun unintended, but loud pipes is AWESOME to listen by itself). And it's the exact opposite with other albums. Origin of Symmetry by Muse comes to mind, it's a very good album that was made to be listened as a whole, and while it keeps the same atmosphere, it doesn't get old. No stress. Downvoting is way easier than wrangling an emotional response into a coherent thought, so no surprise that people would rather do it than move along or reply. All good. I think part of my distaste for ratatat came from how much I used to like them and anticipate every new release. They are more or less local to me, so I've been on the bandwagon for a long time, tried to convert some of my friends who couldn't handle the gimmicky nature of it off the bat, and was left with egg on my face after lp4 came out and it was basically the same old shit they had already pedaled 3 times prior. Once burned, twice shy, they say... That said, check out the track 3030 on the Deltron  album if you wanna hear Dan the Automator employ their "signature sound" 4 years before they existed as an act. Wait, there's no record of dan in ratatat. Did I read that wrong? 3030's beat is almost entirely drawn from [Introit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3uclxW5WS-M), a 1972 composition by William Sheller. Dan did sampling wizardry, but nothing with the melodic structure or "sound" of the piece, and I'm not sure how it sounds *that* much like Ratatat anyway. Funny, classics is the only album I still play from start to finish sometimes. I feel exactly the same way about the rest of their albums though. Was there a reason you mentioned classics specifically? Because I think it has a little more sound variation than the rest.

And yeah, &lt;3 loud pipes and gettysburg, two of my all time favourite songs by any artist.

Origin of Symmetry is a good album to listen as a whole. A few that spring to mind are An Awesome Wave by Alt-J, Rumours by Fleetwood Mac, Miracle Mile by Starfucker. Also, any album by Air or Bonobo, I always listen to them whole. Really good pieces if you take the time for it. Classics is their only album I've listened to extensively, and it's not unbearable to listen from start to finish, I just feel some songs sound too much similar. There are a lot of good songs, but some just feel a lot of the same "gimmicks" repeated over and over, but that's just my opinion. And it still doesn't take anything from their sound! I just like more variation in albums even when they keep the same atmosphere. Yea I would absolutely love a Remixes V.III album for the summer.  Unfortunately it seems like they just aren't doing the hip hop remixes any more. Yeah I like all of their rap remixes, but I definitely know what you mean. It's hard to tell some songs from the other and there isn't a distinct style that separates the albums from each other. I love it all, but I totally get that complaint  I mean no artist needs to make anything right? But as long there are fans of the old sound they might want to cater to that. 

Another thing to consider is that there are people who are fans of Ratatat's old stuff that want to hear them live again, and there are artists who would love to let people hear what they want. Making a new album that sounds similar allows a band to convince studio executives to fund and produce live tours, and Ratatat can then go please their fans in a direct way. 

Sometimes a band creates a whole new sound and when you go to their concert for the old sound you end up disappointed. I've had that experience with Toro y Moi quite recently. It is a balancing act, but I do see a lot of possible reasons why a band might want to produce a new album with old sound. Imagine if radiohead never pushed their sound past The Bends. Granted, there is something to said to pandering to those of your fans who only want to engage with what you've already done, but there is as much if not more to be said for making something that pushes the sonic boundaries and letting your fans take it or leave it. Look at the critical reception to kid a right when it dropped vs 10 years later. 

Edit: said amnesiac. Meant kid a.  I don't think ratatat will release anything as sonically difficult as kid a. Should be good but it won't redefine anything Don't think anyone is expecting that of them, especially not at this point. Whether they are limited by design or ability is up for debate, but I don't think anyone expects them to ever leave their very specific niche at this point. I hope it's more progressive than the newest BoC album. That literally sounded like it was written right years ago. It's def hard for a band to crank out something fresh after being on hiatus for so long I'd listen to another hip hop remixes album... I think it is either based on the person.  Some fans complain when bands change sounds which is developing and some complain when bands stay the same and some just don't care. I'm actually kind of surprised by that accusation.  I thought LP3 was significantly different than Ratatat or Classics, though their albums since then have sounded very similar. Dude, go listen to LP3 right now, and  tell me again that they haven't developed at all. I don't know man, IMO each album is pretty different. It's not a Radiohead type progression or anything but there are definitely unique elements to to each one.  I wouldn't quite say that. Lp3 and 4 are much more tribal than their earlier works. They just have a unique guitar style and recurring use of autoharps If they do that, I just hope they do it like Justice did and not like Daft Punk did Cream on chrome? More like creamed my panties it's such a good single! Can't wait for the album to drop.  *having flash backs of coachella, and that trippy ass baby they had as a backdrop.* It feels like it's been 17 years since the last album.  Thats how long i've been rapping no disrespect, but that's how I am TSSHHH DUNDUNUDUDUDUDUDUDU I just write it from my heaaad &gt;I just kick it from my head, you know what I'm sayin'?

FTFY because I'm an asshole No disrespect, that's just how I am.  OK, but do you like their stuff anymore? Appropriate joke since many of the kids today only know Ratatat from Kid Cudi's shoutouts.  I've been waiting so long for new ratatat. One of the few electronic bands I truly enjoy. I could never really get into electronic music but a few years ago I was at a festival and saw Ratatat randomly because there was nothing else going on that hour. I had never heard of them before and HOLY SHIT they put on the 2nd best live show I've ever seen. What was the 3rd best live show you've ever seen? seeing Jay Reatard play and getting to meet him about a month before he died. 

here's a track if you haven't heard him: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qwYXm2_DTcw And 1st best?  When I was a freshman in college I saw Tool tour for Lateralus. Tricky was their opener and at the end of the show Tool did a 15 minute long jam on Disposition with Tricky and his entire band. So Tricky and Maynard were singing a duet with Tricky's entire rhythm section (including steel drums) jamming along with Danny Carey. I nearly came in my pants.

edit: it wasn't Disposition, it was Reflection! soooo fucking good. Holy crap. I almost feel like any show after that would be a let down.  I'm so pumped for this release!! Are they really considered electronic? Sure, their compositions might be most comparible to electronica music, but it's mostly instrumental. It doesn't make sense to me to label them as electronic but I suppose I'm not sure what other genre would fit the bill. I think you are confusing electronic and EDM. Ratatat are very much electronic. I love that they're essentially guitar instrumentals. It's like what Joe Satriani or Steve Vai would have made if they had grown up listening to EDM. Not sure why you're being downvoted, Satch EDM would be awesome Same here man! Loved them since the first time I heard Lex. I've been rapping for like 17 years okay? I don't write my own stuff anymore I just kick from my heeead you'know what I'm sayin? I can do that. No disrespect, but that's how I am...

That song opened a whole new world of music for me when I was like 12.

Edit: I was just quoting the into, I think that was obvious enough so I didn't specifically name the song. Nostrand will forever be my favorite song by them. Dat crescendo  Breaking Away for me. That slow build-up, and when it finally breaks down...holy shit. That whole album is incredible but Nostrand and Loud Pipes are my favourites. Nostrand is just perfection Excellent choice. Simplicity followed by explosion That and Wild Cat. Black heroes might be my absolute fave of ratatat.  Same, just gives me the chills it's the song that first introduced me to them.  Dude, YES. Will never forget them opening with an extended version to start a show in DC 6-7 years ago. The suspense must have built and built for over 5 minutes, and then BOOM!

Laid the foundation for an incredible show! Holy fuck that sounds awesome! Grape Juice City and Party with Children are among my favorites. But I can never get enough of Seventeen Years or Loud Pipes.  Nostrands my most played song, but I think Cherry followed by Seventeen Years must be my favorites. I'm really partial to Shiller but I also love Cherry, Bilar and Breaking Away. Yes! And Black Heroes and Montanita. Montanita might be one of my favorite opening tracks for any album. Cherry bro. Or Swisha And then we got Tame Impalas new album 'Currents' coming out a day later!! July is going to be a good month of music. I believe Last Dinosaurs are coming out with an album that month too. I know this is circlejerked a lot, but let's face the facts. 2015 is a pretty badass year for music. So pumped for currents. My god isn't Gorillaz making a new one too?? And new Chemical Brothers with Tame impala, too.  And Frank Ocean!! DESPOT IF RATATAT CAN PUT OUT AN ALBUM IN 2015 MAYBE YOU CAN PUT OUT THE ONE THEY PRODUCED FOR YOU 80 YEARS AGO Despot Roast! But are they in the top 1% of Ratatat? [Top, fucking, percentage.](http://imgur.com/RoOysc0) Nowhere is safe. Can anyone recommend more bands like this?  If you like Ratatat, you will like _________________________ . more Ratatat.

There's nothing quite like them. I've found Ratatat adjacent bands that I like some or all of - basically everything mentioned below your comment. Specifically that I see right now: El Ten Eleven, Little People, Emancipator, MGMT, RJD2, Justice (my personal favorite). None of them are Ratatat though. And you might not like any of them. Who knows? They are an irrational constant of the universe like Pi or *e* upvote for justice love :)

never heard of el ten eleven, excited to check it out Just start a Pandora station with Ratatat and you are bound to find all sorts of cool stuff (be careful not to thumbs up Daft Punk or they will take over the station). 

If you like Ratatat and Justice, you may like Boys Noize, Digitalism or Uppermost haha I know em all, thank you though, I appreciate it. had a good period where I was pretty into all of them but found the dance-focused stuff doesn't stick with me as much. that's why I love Justice, it's awesome music that can end up being dancey instead of the other way around I'll second Emancipator and RJD2. Those guys are great, though not nearly as electronic as Ratatat.  I just want to second El Ten Eleven and Little People.  They both show up rather frequently on one of my Pandora channels (I forget which but it's not one I'd have expected) and I really like all I've heard. Yup. There is nothing close in modern music. I always hear people try to give "if you like ratatat you'll like x" recommendations. While they are often true (I do end up "liking" the band), they do not actually *sound* like Ratatat. 

The **only** band that comes close is Springwaterand they are old (from the 70's I think). Layered, harmonized electric guitar melodies over simple drums. "I Will Return" is a masterpiece, and I'm excited to hear Ratatat cover it on Magnifique. Moderat.  Moderat is very underrated. See also: Apparat, Modeselektor El ten eleven The Mercury Program Always saw them as Post Rock though? Definitely more post rock.  Doesn't mean you wouldn't like them if you're into ratatat  I actually had never considered them post rock. Always thought more of mark rock or the likes, though they didn't like being labaled that. Flume, pretty lights, rjd2 RJD2 is the tits. Everything the dude touches is pretty much gold, you can get lost on his spotify page for days.

STS x RJD2 just came out and it's really solid if you're into rap. I'll have to check it out. Lately I've been listening to Nightmares On Wax pandora radio.  Fuck Buttons (Tarot Sport is a masterpiece of an album) God I love Fuck Buttons, glad to see them finally get a mention on reddit. 

I'd say to start with [Stalker](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pT6f8gVS5jw) Yes! That song is huge try some Chet Faker, songs like Gold, I'm into you, no diggity Trentemller! Little People, Deastro,  Brian Witzig, Emancipator Little People is fantastic. A Shell In The Pit
https://ashellinthepit.bandcamp.com/album/mammals Moderat give delicate steve a try he is pretty small but has a similar electronic sound with a guitar focus Glad someone mentioned Delicate Steve. He's the closest I've gotten to having a similar sound to Ratatat. "Butterfly" is amazing. Queen.  I'm not kidding.  RATATAT must take a cue from Brian May's guitar playing. I've always loved the Brian May-esque guitarwork, and you can hear it even more in Ratatat's recently-released "Intro". Maybe it's the piano+guitar that makes it really stand out. Yeah, the dual guitar solos are definitely there.  for sure. the tone of the guitars as well as the harmonized lines are definitely influenced by brian may. in fact, they admit that they 'ripped off' his sound in [this interview.](http://www.readthehook.com/66486/interview-ratatat-science-strange-instrumentals-plus-free-tickets)

lastly, [this other classic](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9lgOo8yEIPs&amp;t=3m41s) reminds me of their sound as well.

edit: whenever people ask me for bands like ratatat, I also answer [delicate steve](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3p2PKtZz-rE) first Oh damn, look at that...  

&gt;A lot of our guitar sound is ripped off from Brian May.

So it wasn't a coincidence that I always think of Queen when I hear the guitar kick in on a RATATAT track. I've always thought the riff from Shempi is ripped straight out of an ABBA song Try Ganja White Night.  Kavinsky Kavinsky is good, but *nowhere near* Ratatat's style.  But you're also a fan of both? Hmm I think I'm onto something I'm also into Suicide Silence and Garth Brooks. What are you implying? And now I have two new artists to listen to. This isn't how this works? Yeah I don't get the problem. The OP didn't ask for similar artists, he asked what other artists he might enjoy if he enjoys Ratatat. 

I wouldn't say Kavinsky is "nowhere near" Ratatat's style either. They both have good a vibe going on. CIVIL CIVIC. Check out the songs "less unless," "run overdrive," and "lights on a leash." Crazy, melodic, heavy, out-there instrumentals. 2 guys plus a drum machine. Crystal Castles, sort of. Has singing though. Check out Darkside! They are a bit more psychadelic though, almost like Ratatat mixed with Pink Floyd. NASA &amp; RJD2 comes pretty close, there's a lot of more "Chill" DJs that are kinda down that path too, but then you get away from the more snappy rhythms of Ratatat.

This is a newer DJ that reminds me a bit of them, again more chill for sure though.

https://soundcloud.com/maxzwell

 Mister Valaire, french canadian group. I'm not gonna say they sound very similar, but they go well together in a playlist: Purity Ring. Justice, The Gorrillaz, A Tribe called quest, idk they're pretty unique I would say all three of those are pretty far from the mark.

....not that I can suggest anything better. 

Like you said, Ratatat is pretty much the only ones doing what they are doing.   Ehh Justice's newest album could come close to something a Ratatat fan would like. new album? -est Why wouldn't someone who likes Ratatat also potentially like Justice, Gorillaz or Tribe? Not very similar though.   I can't think of a similar band but Ratatat did produce Kid Cudi's man on the moon albums. Those are worth checking out if you haven't already. Not exactly what you were asking but they have done a few collaborations with Kid Cudi. Pursuit of Happiness is definitely one of theirs and I think Alive was too. I think you'll like Gotan Project. They are electronic too, but a bit more instrumental and musical. Here's an e.g.:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Otelte6m5Q

And, in all seriousness, I'd suggest Bach as well. Not directly "similar", but I think if you have the ear for one you may have an ear for the other.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FII7K1_WzBE I've been listening to a bit of Virtual Boy lately. Give them a try.. Particularly the song "Mass" pink floyd. A lot of their instrumental songs are similar to ratatat. They said that on the new album Ratatat is doing a cover of a song, [Springtime - I Will Return.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=01zHBnSTrh8)  Holy crap is that a good sounding song, I can hear the infulence on Ratatat with the guitar harmonies and easy beat.  This song at the end of the album should be a real show stopper, I can't wait to hear it! I'd throw in STRFKR in there if you like ratatat.  It's really not the same but in some way it scratches the same itch for me.  Check out their self titled album, it's amazing. Whitest boy alive.. With less synth sounds tho. Justice is a good call. Raaaaaawwr!! Woot woot!  *doot doot* thank mr. skeltal thank mr. skeltal I got confused for a second and thought i was in /r/pokemon New music from pokemon trio "Ratatta, Pidgey, and Wurmple"! So far away! Someone call JG Wentworth, it is my music and I need it now! 

&lt;3 ratatat  Does this mean Kid Cudi will put out good record again? This is not relevant at all, really---but I was scanning reddit titles too quickly and somehow combined this post  with a Hillary Clinton post, and thought it said, "Hillary Clinton Announces New Album 'Magnifique'...". I had to do a double-take. 

Maybe others will get a chuckle out of my cool story bro. Gov Ball Here I Come! (although the month between hearing them and the album release is sure to suck..) Can't wait to see them there! Blur, Modest Mouse, Ratatat and Muse... How old am I again? Aww yiss  How triumphant! RemindMe! 2 months "ratatat's new album" OMFGGGG best news i've heard all day. the intro + video is absolutely spectacular...welcome back boys  magni-fuckinfique ratatat So Glitch Mob releases a new album, now Ratatat.  Moderat I'm looking at you!  When is it coming!? Can't wait for a new album consisting of songs that all sound almost exactly the same!  Cool, ten more songs I can't tell apart from any of the other ones Oh thank god.  I've been playing those other albums into the ground.
 Adding to the reddit livestream.

Come join us over at /r/RATATAT! Omg I can't wait to miss this. I was expecting LP5 Saw Ratatat in Denver about a month ago. They are...just....so....good. Cant wait for new album. Can't wait for the 29th. Haven't heard the roseland new system yet and not many better candidates to break it in than ratatat imo. I'm so stoked. Damn, what a great year for music. 5 days away from my birthday...

Close enough, I'm calling it a birthday present. You're welcome. She's got the crazy eyes. Yea sure it'll be out July 17 but when will it leak? Multi-love comes out May 26th but I've already been listening to that for about a month now. My life has new meaning.  Where the hell can I get the remix albums? I used to have them, but haven't seen them in years!  I should've have read this, I don't need more things to anxiously awaits

Like happiness and prosperity Their remix of CSS Red Alert was so well liked by the band it became the regular version on the album Aw yiss Oh twice on the front page. Ok Roaarrrrrrr Is it the top 5% of Ratatat? So hype! At least 150 or more to see. To be a Pokmon Master is my destiny. Saw them play @ coachella this year.  Holy shit.  Very happy to see ratatat getting recognition from lots of people Interesting, just a day after one of their songs got to the front page of /r/music I recently found out about them through Pandora radio, great music. But when does the GRATATA album drop? Gonna need new mixtape, boys. Yay! That's my burfday! Same day as the new Tame Impala? 

Gonna need a fresh 7 pack of undies *Ejaculates* Gonna sound like everything else. I fucking hope so. Listen to LP3 and LP4, Look me in the eyes, and tell me that. Can't wait for more ball-less hipster bullshit God Forbid they make a song without the same tired guitar harmonies and song structure.  It was cool for a second I'm right there with you. Cool at first, but holy hell do they use that bendy guitar sound a lot. Takes me right out of it. HEAVEN CAN WAIT HEAVEN CAN WA-A-AIT HEAVEN CAN WAIT 'TILL ANOTHER DAY gallop gallop gallop - gallop gallop gallop gallop ! Great news!  Up the fuckin' irons!! That title was a wild ride on my phone because of the screen width.

&gt; Iron Maiden's Bruce Dickinson gets cancer

NOOO

&gt; all-clear.

Oh thank goodness. Iron Maiden's Bruce Dickinson gets cancer all over :O Up(vote) the Irons. My husband's office gave us some backstage passes to Iron Maiden's show when they came to our town. I didn't really know much about them as that type of music isn't typically my thing, but I had heard of them. We got to meet Bruce and he is the nicest guy ever. His manager kept trying to pull him away, but he stayed and chatted with us about my husband's job and about their beer. They put on a hell of a show, though. One of the best concerts I've ever been to. Oh that beer is so good! They have beer!?  
Edit: Looked it up, doesn't seem to be any way to get it in Canada. I'll have to look harder. Yeah, Trooper.  
It's definitely one of my favorites. Hopefully you can find it somewhere. We can buy it in the States. I usually only see it at a Total Wine or some place similar, though.  Some of the liquor stores here in Newfoundland carry it so one would think you could get it in other provinces.  Nice! I'm in Nova Scotia, I'll have to call around!  I see it here in Alberta all the time. Any Co Op or Liquer Depot has it. I'm in Nova Scotia, I'll have to take a look in the non-NSLC stores. Order some! Looks like Robinson's doesn't ship to Canada, I will find a way though! If it kills me!  Iron Maiden was by far the best live performance I have ever seen, so far, but there's a lot of great shows coming up this year: Rush, Van Halen and Slipknot. Let's see if any of them can beat Maiden. Sabaton is crazy good in concert as well.  Don't forget AC/DC What a trooper! Bruce: You take my life but i'll take yours too    
Cancer: .... !    
Bruce:.. YOUUU !    
Cancer: Fear of the dark..    
Bruce: Yeah ! Listening to the song as I am reading this joke But it wasn't a joke.

 Good News. Last thing Metal needs is another Dio situation. That was so sad. Well. There was a Dio situation, for some of us Metalheads. The lead singer of Pagan Altar lost to cancer the same day (I think) Dickinson was free. Cancer tried to destroy the metal, but the metal had it's way.

 You can't kill the metal.
 
 
 
 
The metal will live on. PUNK ROCK TRIED TO DEFILE THE METAL, BUT THE METAL HAD ITS WAAAAAY YEEEAAAHH! we can add Cancer's ass kicker extraordinaire to the legend of Bruce. so happy he's clean now. And he didn't smoke or drink.  So why did he have a commonly recurring cancer?  He's not out of the woods yet.

In fact, his chance of relapse is higher because he didn't smoke. &gt; In fact, his chance of relapse is higher because he didn't smoke.

TIL smoking lowers the chances of cancer relapsing.  It's because if your cancer was the result of smoking, stopping smoking eliminates the cause. If it happened just "on its own", then there's no external factor you can eliminate to lower the risk of a relapse.  I understand. It's just his phrasing.  As a lifelong Maiden fan I feel insulted that it took the guardian 3 days to report on this.  Right? I was surprised when I posted the original thread a few days ago and nobody had done an article on it yet for me to link to.  Good to hear.  But if the cancer had killed him, the cancer would have died, too.  His last words could have been singing "Trooper" to his disease.  "You take my life, but I'll take yours, too!" And thank all the Metal gods for that. Because we have already lost Dio. Im not 100% sure how Tony Iommi is going by nowadays though... Last I heard Iommi was doing fine. I don't remember if that meant remission or what.  Im glad to hear that =) Because its enough that the damn cancer took Dio away... Currently at 666 likes. I think I'll leave it.

edit: now at 674. what's wrong with people these days? Damn kids and their aversion to Satan **THE** Bruce Dickinson? Coming from you Bruce, that means a lot! C'mon, this joke made up like 40% of the last thread on this topic too. THE Bruce Dickinson? When you fellas leave here you're gonna be wearing gold plated diapers.  What does that even mean? I got a **FEVAH** And the only prescription...

...is more cowbell. What does that even mean?
 Never question Bruce Dickinson! So? Because constant, thread-derailing, unimaginative, unoriginal, tired, stupid, joke comments are the real cancer killing Reddit. Can't wait for a new alternative! Unofficial mod poll: Should /r/music institute some level of comment moderation to reduce low-effort content (e.g. in-jokes, memes, dead-horse comments, etc.)? We're fairly hands-off right now with comment rules besides what is addressed in reddiquette.  yes Who is to determine what is low-effort and what is actual comedic gold?  It will be very hard to get /r/music to be like /r/askhistorians, and you don't really have a racist slur problem like other big subs. Honestly as shitty as it is I'd say you should just leave it be, people will lose their minds about you deleting a Bruce Dickinson joke and there'll be no end of trouble. Somewhat; Personally I still find it all amusing, since I don't frequent reddit that much. To the casual user, it seems funny, but I can see how it gets old quickly.  I just think of it as the chorus line in the song that is this thread.  I don't think so, it kind of kills subs if you're afraid to post a joke or something close to one.  no. if the low-effort content is so bad, downvotes will do what they're supposed to do. [deleted] Unless there's a serious tag. I'd say let 'en roll I dunno, adding this on top of those banned songs that are linked too much can lead to a slippery slope in power-tripping by mods. Do you think the Hall of Fame has increased or decreased the quality of the subreddit? It's probably a turn for the better, but tightening the rules once again in a short time is dangerous imo. We actually implemented that rule over a year ago and added a second wave of artists and songs almost 5 months ago now.  I heard it was minorities and feminists and liberals that are running a cabal to destroy Reddit, but I'm pretty sure it's the "humor" that's making the site shittier, personally. Everyone's in a mad rush to get virtual high fives, which causes them to just copy and paste the top jokes and pictures. The way you've worded that sounds like you're being sarcastic about copy pasted humor ruining reddit and serious about minorities and feminists ruining reddit. I'm honestly not sure what to make of that. I was making fun of the /r/subredditcancer idiots. &gt; are the real cancer killing Reddit.

are the real cancer killing ~~Reddit~~ /b.

We've been on this roller coaster before. Who wants to see the same stupid joke a hundred times in a row? Forget it mum, the mob has spoken. Monoraillllll. Monoraillllllll. Monoraillllllllllll.  Guess what. I've got cancer and the only prescription was more cowbell. *more chemo. No. I hope this thread doesn't become people quoting this all over again. Its not even the same Bruce Dickinson.

Neither Bruce Dickinson's even produced that record. Easy, guys.. Bruce Dickenson puts his pants on just like the rest of you -- one leg at a time. Except, once his pants are on, he makes gold records. Before we're done here.. y'all be wearing gold-plated diapers. What does that even mean I gotta fever! etc.  Cock o' da walk, baby!  Yes, *the* Bruce Dickinson. I had to look too long for this. GOTTA HAVE MORE COWBELL, BABY I can't imagine how anyone can dislike Bruce.

Trained opera singer, Olympic standard fencer, professional pilot and metal legend. Which lane is he on now?  
https://xkcd.com/931/ wow We don't know.  That answer is correct and sad. Long Live Bruce and now that it's all clear, time for some new songs already. We are all ready to scream for you. I'm shocked, utterly shocked that this thread is full of the shame shitty comments as the thread about this that was posted literally [three days ago.](http://www.reddit.com/r/Music/comments/362ns9/bruce_dickinsons_mri_test_came_back_cancer_free/)     I know, right? I'm Losfer Words. The SnL quoters are Running Free in this comment section.  Is there no Sanctuary to be had? Great news! He is my favorite heavy metal aviator :) Who is 2nd and 3rd? thank dio Up the irons!

Hopefully this means a new album and a new tour! According to their Facebook, new album coming out this year, touring will only come next year. the cock of the walk baby! Great news, hope it stays that way.  Let this be a reminder to see them if you haven't. One of the greatest live bands of all time and just as good as they were 30 years ago. Bruce is age defying. Once upon a time i lived above Bruce's local pub in London. Nice guy. Loves an ESB Welcome to 5 days ago.  As OP of original thread, it's ok. Maybe the cowbell and SNL messages will finally quit flooding my inbox.  New album?  And we just replaced all the windows in our house. Oh well! :)  (Canadian tour!!!)
 That'll give him some 'piece of mind'... Awful article title. Is it that hard to *not* start a sentence about Bruce being in remission with "Bruce Dickinson gets cancer"? I read that as Iron Maiden's Bruce Dickinson gets cancer all day Like the all clear to have all the cancer he can handle? Iron Maiden cant be stopped! I know someone who had a cancer here. He has much weight to put back on. Godspeed. I had no idea. Glad he recovered, I hope it didn't impair his functioning. Maiden rules! FANTASTIC NEWS! Now we can stop using his cancer to a reference to 2 minutes to midnight.  He doesn't wanna die, he's a God why can't he live on??? YEEEEAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!! I can't think of anything more metal than spitting in cancers face once you beat it! thats good news Put your horns up!  Great to hear. It's really awful that he should need clearance to get cancer anyway. It's his body, and it should be his choice to irradiate it. You can't kill the metal. Heaven can wait! Excellent news, now if cancer can fuck off and leave Tony Iommi alone that would be terrific as well.  Dragon Tears cure cancer "Hmm, Hmmm, what ho sed de t'ing wid de t'ree bonce. Don't meddle wid t'ings you don't understand"

Dear Cancer, please, heed these words, because clearly, you don't understand  THE Bruce Dickinson Rock on He was once in a band with an Italian Drummer. Awesome News - So happy to hears this !!

Iron Maiden is my fav all time band - been going to their shows since 1981 and see them on every tour - bought the t-shirt, mug, poster, Albums, CDs, DVDs (Flight 666 ruled) and most recently Trooper Beer.

Bruce is the best Rock frontman in the business - they are a must see for any rock and roll fan

Up The Irons !! We love you Bruce - Come back to Canada !! You can never be sure with cancer, just saying. There is no such thing as cancer all clear, that shit can pop up again. Get well, Bruce!  Up the Irons  All those slaughtered daughters paid off then. Old news... New news is that Rush is on their "maybe" last tour. fuck your title From HPV no doubt.   I survived this.   Up the Irons. [Lukaku!!!!](http://streamable.com/q427) This is the most Metal thing I've heard all week. Hell yes. We've been losing too many legends lately.  Oh thank Satan.  Legends like him should never have to die. So would you say he is...Running Free? Yeah?

P.S.
Yes, I know. GO BRUCE! They need to come back to the midwest pleaseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee. Here for cowbell comments. Cowbell? That's Blue Oyster Cult. I believe the character Christopher Walkin played in the SNL sketch was named "Bruce Dickinson" but I may be wrong
 Different Bruce Dickinson. Oh I'm very aware. Huge Iron Maiden fan and that is probably the only reason the name from the sketch stuck with me over the years I assumed they would be here. &gt;but I may be wrong

Don't worry; you're right. Maybe they wrote him a prescription.

or

He kicked cancer's ass like everyone else. But once he was done, he made gold records. Maybe we can edit the titlea bit. Its a little misleading for a second. Never question Bruce Dickinson!!!

edit: the only bad taste that I have is in my mouth WHEN IM DONE WITH YA, YOU ALL WILL BE WEARING GOLD PLATED DIAPERS!!

What does that mean??

YOU DONT QUESTION BRUCE DICKINSON!! Thass because e's naught evil! I'm eeevil! Dooncha remember me? From the show lass year? I got up onna stage anna boys gev me a right kickin'! I lost a testicle! Here, sign me breast! Sign me breast! HPV. Get vaccine, kids! He must not have had his boots on. *The* Bruce Dickinson? HES THE COCK OF THE WALK BABY! I heard that the only presciption he needed was more cowbell We know it's a different Bruce Dickinson! THAT'S WHY IT'S FUNNY!   Ah yes, played convincingly by fan favorite [Christopher Walken](https://screen.yahoo.com/more-cowbell-174128899.html) How are they able to safely put a heavy metal guy in an MRI?
 "I got a FEVER. And the prescription, is more chemo"  *The* Bruce Dickinson? I'm all for IM and great for Bruce, he has a lot to give to music and hopefully aviation.

But all my life I've had this opinion that everyone named Dickinson should really change their surname. Probably don't have to explain why. THE Bruce Dickinson??!!

https://youtu.be/1UXHiPWrZxg?t=30s

In all seriousness though, this is great news for the Bruce. THE Bruce Dickinson?  At first glance I thought someone had dick cancer... Rock "legend" Bruce Dickinson.   Good for him I guess. When I wake up I'm more concerned that the hospital 1 mile down the street contains close to a 100 kids who are doing everything to live past 11. But I'll keep the guy who's lived an amazing life in my thoughts. I'm sure their bankrupt parents love Iron Maiden. Careful, you might cut yourself with all that edge You're a sad person, aren't you?  THE Bruce Dickinson. And fellas, he puts his pants on one leg at a time. That's a rather unfortunate name, Dickinson. This is why children shouldn't be on reddit...

Ninja edit Maybe that's how his ancestor got the surname, like Smith, Foreman, Clark. Are you high? I'm just here for the Iron Maiden puns. There aren't any yet? Hmmm. I'll check back later.  It's a good thing he was quick on the cancer diagnosis, or else he would be dead. Yeh,the guys a real trooper,  , derpy derp  /r/titlegore  Hi! I made typedrummer. Thank you all so much for sharing what you make. I'm trying to listen to all of them!!

If you have any requests for features, let me know. But I already wrote down the obvious ones tempo change, multiple tracks, recording output... What else do you want to see?

Edit: thanks for the gold :) Multiple tracks would be awesome! I would like to build on this track http://typedrummer.com/rc7c3o

Edit: I also would like to see which letter is being played. A real time beam moving across the letters.  Oh man, that was wayyy better than mine http://typedrummer.com/89g9r4  You should add "Filthy Redditses" after your every comment.  http://typedrummer.com/0i68r1 I did some freestylin lol http://typedrummer.com/5a3312 I notice that when you're not on the tab, the music tempo doesn't stay how it was, it slows. This is because when you switch tabs in chrome, the resources to that tab are reduced (javascript slows down).  If you open different windows of chrome instead of different tabs, this wont happen. Multiple tracks would be awesome! (also the real-time beat indicator)

It also seems to stop working correctly when I switch tabs, not that it's a major concern or anything. Open this in Chrome, swap tabs and notice the difference.  Yeah, I noticed that as well!  * More sounds, utilize caps and special keys.
* Dual polyphony with 2 characters piped together i.e. "o|q" would play the "o" sound at the same time as the "q" sound.
* Highlight/Bold the current playing letter.
* A transport with play/stop/pause.
* Also a minor bug report: in Chrome, if you open a beat in a tab and switch to a different tab the beat changes as does the tempo.

[edit]

* Make the text field resizable by grabbing the bottom right corner. &gt;Also a minor bug report: in Chrome, if you open a beat in a tab and switch to a different tab the beat changes as does the tempo.

This isn't a bug with the coding per say, but rather has to do with the way that Chrome handles resources.  I.E. Every tab in Chrome is a separate process, so when you change tabs, the browser doesn't put as many resources to the hidden tabs, thus the tempo slows down. It has to do with javascript timing. Background tabs will only be able to process events at like 1/100th the interval that a focused tab does, and in music intervals need to be pretty fucking spot on. It, it works on mobile. You genius!  &gt; Whoops! It seems you're on an iOS device. typedrummer is made for desktops and keyboards!

fuck.
 Android master race I love my droid, you are on a mobile device, oh let me fix that, clicks option to view as a desktop  you can do that on iOS I wouldn't go crazy with enhancements. Simplicity is the cool thing about it.  You, sir, are brilliant.

Edit: To add my creations...
http://typedrummer.com/u319cn and http://typedrummer.com/141u4l That second one is really cool! the first one kinda sounds like hey mickey you're so fine ^_^ that blows my mind ;) Am I suppose to hear something......All I see is text.  What am I missing? Everything OK...Thanks? What are you confused about? Better structure on the layout of the sounds, right now it seem to be all random? And also maybe a map of what sounds are where, as right now you have to try each letter on your own and find which ones work together. Quite tedious to be honest and kind of "killed" the fun for me. The logical part of me understands why you'd want the structure more clearly defined, but after reading the comments here and seeing how much fun everyone's having experimenting with different letters and combinations, I'm really glad it's done this way. It encourages creativity and it's fun for everyone to try to figure out. A volume control? Beastie Boys - Brass Monkey style: http://typedrummer.com/bff475 That was sick. Sounds more like the second part of the new style to me. Sounds great with the alternative samples too http://typedrummer.com/z09537
 That's pretty damn cool, man best in thread for sure nice man, best one i've heard so far.
 http://typedrummer.com/7ywnh0

my attempt with the moon bounce samples That was fantastic yo this is my favorite one Wasted way more than a couple minutes lol http://typedrummer.com/gt9h7q Ooh, I like this one Christ, this sounds pretty much exactly like the IT Crowd theme: chttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RH5DpBU5ohk All of a sudden BAM! I'm the composer for the Birdman soundtrack. http://typedrummer.com/0644sa Courtesy of /u/Volcanix Play this but click the load new samples button while it's playing... it's funky! I got yo back http://typedrummer.com/61bs2s did a little collaboration ft. reddit made beats
Hope you enjoy !
http://typedrummer.com/r10u6t The beginning sounded like brass monkey by the beastie boys. I just jammed that loop for 5 mins. Love it.  How do you play it? nothing obvious works for me http://typedrummer.com/n9843w

http://typedrummer.com/3233mj

http://typedrummer.com/1f7537 It's a shame but I cannot play shit  If you're using a mobile reddit app, you have to open the links in your Web browser  A "(" does an echo?

-- edit --
Seems to up the tempo and [ slows it down. Chars between "(" and ")" are triplets. Don't see "[" or "]" mentioned anywhere. though. The source is quite readable :) If you if try adding a "[" it changes something in the rhythm.

--edit--
I was wrong, it's just adds a pause like space or any other unknown char. [Funky baseline](http://typedrummer.com/qou2n0) you can call your self Mofman Micopan Quick, someone write some LCD Soundsystem lyrics. SOUND OF SILVER TALK TO ME.  [WE ARE NORTH AMERICANS](https://youtu.be/gJ2np7R-Uwg) / something about a weird first date that we called off and then I went for a walk downtown and I thought about why I'd agreed in the first place / /thought to myself, this isn't happening/ /then I walk past a place where people are having fun/

*music swells* That's rad. 10/10 will dance.  Is it meant to go nuts when I change Firefox tabs? I'VE GOT A FEVER
http://typedrummer.com/6kz727 It's good but... http://typedrummer.com/fh574h Hahaha. I fucking lost it at this. That pause before the cowbell started killed me. I really appreciate you keeping the whole beat in time; the pause before the cowbell assault made me so happy. Should have been more like: http://typedrummer.com/1z991f **MISSISSIPPI QUEEN** tch tch tch BUH NUH NUH NUH NUH **IF YOU KNOW WHAT *I* MEAN** http://typedrummer.com/50489l http://typedrummer.com/82aez4 This fucked up my phone. The noise wouldn't stop even when everything was closed down. I had to restart my phone. You bastard.  Worked fine on my nexus 5.  Praise DuARTe! Same here. Dafuq??? why would you want it to stop? More cowbell baby! My best try at Battletoads pause song: http://typedrummer.com/8jv500 [My attempt](http://typedrummer.com/177e41) [90s Techno is pretty ez](http://typedrummer.com/l9rym8).  And making it a bit more modern [is just as ez pz](http://typedrummer.com/b0909s). http://typedrummer.com/7ph3a1 dank m8 Gorilla http://typedrummer.com/xgj59l Sounds pretty nice. Especially with the other samples. http://typedrummer.com/h95p3q http://typedrummer.com/i55756

Wot u fink m9? [Here's it with new samples, sounds pretty sweet](http://typedrummer.com/0x46u3) that is some dope skill!  That's some OG gangsta shit I liiiiike that. Also sounds pretty cool with the New Samples selected. [i just wasted too much time and this is the only original thing i could come up with](http://typedrummer.com/8gfu08) Add a ( in the beginning. oh shit, that's so much better And definitely try it with the other samples, pretty sick Wow it's way better with the other samples here u go: http://typedrummer.com/ft19m9
 The Simpsons theme:

http://typedrummer.com/5huwp8 nice dude, that really made me laugh :D Awesome, well done.  You got me, cock The best is you have to read a few lines to figure it out What do you think of this? http://typedrummer.com/8k4848 RIP inbox....http://typedrummer.com/8lyyb8 That beat is no joke.  [No this is](http://typedrummer.com/25zlhp) [LP Version](http://typedrummer.com/0h8x9e)	 I tried to program http://typedrummer.com/1o369m Heart beat: http://typedrummer.com/o3at6q http://typedrummer.com/vy480i My attempt. Even sounds good with the New Samples option [Childish Gambino's next hot beat.](http://typedrummer.com/gj3f1p)

(Free for you to use, Donald, if you give me a production credit.) I wouldn't be surprised if he did. Childish Gambino is actually a product of a "What's your Wu-tang clan name?" kind of thing. Well. I easily just lost 30 minutes of my life. This is great. Share your beat(s)! unfortunately I didn't save my masterpiece but enjoy! http://typedrummer.com/xn2b37 The music video for this could be Leisure Suit Larry woohooing all the ladies with the subscript GOTTA GET SOME TAEL flashing under it  What do the ( ) do () Turns all shit inside into triplets, it's dope. [deleted] somewhat fitting

http://typedrummer.com/7x5yu7 that meep [meep meep](http://typedrummer.com/044et6) [porcazozza](http://typedrummer.com/m5y196) http://typedrummer.com/6b04i2 

not_bad.jpg typed ba dum tss, extremely disappointed WARNING: 

**Do not open if you have Internet Download Manager running!!**
It opened 30+ download instances before I could close the site.

I'll have to check it out later when that software is disabled. [Here goes :^)](http://typedrummer.com/63zd63) [deleted] http://typedrummer.com/tdo920 We showed it to him.  *You're* welcome. I got your beat dog: http://typedrummer.com/g450v0 Time well wasted: http://typedrummer.com/47fx27 So your brother was on reddit three days ago when this was posted for the first time? And I thought I was the only one who remembered... http://typedrummer.com/d81kby someone posted something kind of similar to this not too long ago where he compiled the samples used in a few hip hop songs and allowed you to rearrange them and make stuff with your keyboard. wish I had bookmarked it.

EDIT: [FOUND IT!!](http://samplestitch.com/) [reddit](http://typedrummer.com/50555k) [reddit gold](http://typedrummer.com/0av2ag)  Seems linkin park-y Sounds too much like Papercut.

 wa-ah-ah-ah-ah-owwwww..........WOIIII *"cue Papercut"* Can you connect with that beat? I sure can.  seinfeld of the future http://typedrummer.com/44z869
 He probably saw it on Reddit last week. Every time I see something like this I have two thoughts; first I think "man, that's pretty cool" then after literally 5 seconds I think "fuck this shit, I'm just gonna go play my drums instead" 

Nothing against the app, it is a really cool and interesting idea  I feel like I'm stuck in toejam &amp; earl with most of these
 Today, Reddit gets filled with master drummers. Tomorrow we take the music scene by storm. Worked on mobile for me! (Baconreader) It won't work for me at all on baconreader.  
I'm quite sad. [The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.](http://typedrummer.com/tcv3m3) http://typedrummer.com/j4vezk It's like there's an Iggy Azalea song somewhere there. I heard "poop" I can't wait to wake up tomorrow, so I can listen to all the crazy shit reddit brewed up while I slept. http://typedrummer.com/biqo63 http://typedrummer.com/0644sa http://i.imgur.com/pSwboqn.gif http://typedrummer.com/c9w35e

Edit, slightly better: http://typedrummer.com/0g095y http://typedrummer.com/78b05h guess the theme Terminator? http://typedrummer.com/0h9977 drum beat for OUtkast- So fresh, so clean:

http://typedrummer.com/br1ns5 This thing is a great time waster!

Here is mine: http://typedrummer.com/yx7xdh This is badass. Here's my contribution:

http://typedrummer.com/q5x888 I've been trying in mobile but it does not seem to work I'm on mobile as well. Not sure what app you're using but with bacon reader you have to open the link and then open it with your browser.  &gt; bacon reader 

OK I had to refresh the page with my kdcd substitution extention turned off. 

I guess bacon reader is a thing, and google helped me confirm it. Doesn't seem to work on Opera for desktop either :/ [\_()_/](http://typedrummer.com/1h3b48) really cool man!! do you know where it comes from/who made it?? Bottom of the page has a link to http://kylestetz.com/ Cool site! Fun to fiddle around with. jibberish has a beat http://typedrummer.com/i93f0d [Eduard Anatolyevich Khil](http://typedrummer.com/64i3r9) [High Boob](http://typedrummer.com/s93r36) Not too shabby
http://typedrummer.com/kxor2t I don't know what I made but this is it. http://typedrummer.com/6th042

Edit: Also our alphabet is pretty jamming http://typedrummer.com/zb6xj0. [I love you](http://typedrummer.com/04b07m) [I like big butts](http://typedrummer.com/6w6l02) My name has a real nice beat to it. OMG AWESOME! Well after screwing around for 2 minutes I decided fuck it I'm not going to come up with anything better. This is the best I could do :/ http://typedrummer.com/rl7afi http://typedrummer.com/534263 I saw this on /r/InternetIsBeautiful the other day. So glad it got posted here where people will enjoy it and share their creations.

I'll be attempting to make Sandstorm when I'm home. You're welcome. Thanks for sharing this is awesome!

I was playing around and hit this beat and just zoned out http://typedrummer.com/203l43 http://typedrummer.com/c02s50 [vibes](http://typedrummer.com/k0e88x) For my new mixtape 
http://typedrummer.com/z60ck9 [ba dum tss](http://typedrummer.com/72qs25) http://typedrummer.com/dyfvyc

[Inspiration taken from Arin on Game Grumps.](https://youtu.be/zaNOBzAAwRU?t=105) reddit showed it to your brother  Rare ~~pepe~~ beat: http://typedrummer.com/37r879 [best spent 10 minutes of the day](http://typedrummer.com/v022rb) your 'brother' probably uses reddit more often than you. For those who - like me - lack any sort of musical talent, there's [Touch Pianist](http://touchpianist.com/) instead. :) [oooohhhh boy](http://imgur.com/D4RyK7V.png), I'm gonna have fun with this.... http://typedrummer.com/078i93 This is [life changing.] (http://typedrummer.com/jf19z3) [Just keeping reading mines.] (http://typedrummer.com/wug111) Type "Aaaaaaar" and you've got Run DMC's "It's Tricky" [I found the heartbeat of reddit.](http://typedrummer.com/95u62z) My beats so far: http://typedrummer.com/vz0z15 Loops pretty nicely. This is the quickest repost I have ever seen. Wasn't this on the front page 2 days ago? Why.. why is the "j" sound hurting my ears? A lot? Never felt anything like it. It's like the ear drums become pressurized and then released every time it's played and it feels really strange http://typedrummer.com/5zz3pv This brings me back to the early days of the internet when people just made fun things for the sake of it.  Damn I spent half an hour on this and didn't even realize it. Doesn't do anything in IE11. http://typedrummer.com/k87uq0 Enjoy my beat Im getting good at this 

http://typedrummer.com/t6v1al Here are my attempts.

http://typedrummer.com/xkj0t6

http://typedrummer.com/77a2n4 Check it, check it: http://typedrummer.com/9l93ph It's not working for me, and I feel left out :( Wow, that was a fast three years. Three... I was shocked that it's been more than one. I still feel like this was recent.  Three mc's...one DJ We be gettin' down with no delay.  Mix Master Mike what cha got to say!? Goddamn that DJ made my day ^day ^day ^^ddd ^^^day ^^^^day [deleted] two now :(  Still hurts like it happened yesterday.  Shit, I forgot it was 2015. Wow. It's kind of like that thing where I think that 2000 was 10 years ago.

I feel like I am permanentely stuck somewhere in 2004. Maybe it has something to do with when you hit puberty? I'm rambling.  That happens when you get old. ##***Fuck!*** Thanks for making me even more depressed...it's not fair how fast life is As someone who was born in 1998 I feel like I am a fetus to you. As someone who was born in 1973 I feel like I am a father to you.  I'm 31 and someone I went to high school with has a kid that can drive. To be fair, it sounds like he started while you were in high school.  Doesn't mean he's legally allowed to drive. he might be just a 6 year old that learned to drive, like that Chinese kid in the excavator True. True.  I'm 32, and if that were true for me I think I'd puke everywhere. That is crazy. My buddy is expecting his third kid in the same amount of years and I'm just here like, wanna play madden or something? I am starting to feel the same way at 24. I have friends from high school who have been married since 2008 and now have 7 year old kids, and I'm just sitting here playing wow and hoping anyone will respond to me on tinder. 

Edit: I accidentally two words
 I'm 36 and my friends have daughters that are legal!  ;) Alright, alright, alright. I'm 23 and that's creepy Im 39, got her number? I'm 34 and that's creepy. 41 &amp; high school friends have grandkids almost in elementary school...depressing as hell ya geeze... that would be my friends being grandparents already. I love high school girls. I get older and they stay the same age.  Oops.  Well my mom was born in 1972 so you're not too far off. I was born in 1971. Please post pics of your mom.  dude pls You forgot to link the pics.
  [Like this](http://www.reddit.com/r/help/wiki/faq#wiki_how_do_i_submit_a_picture.2Fphoto.2Fcomic_to_reddit). D.. Dad?! A panda walks into a bar and says to the bartender 'I'll have a Scotch and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Coke thank you'.

'Sure thing' the bartender replies and asks 'but whats with the big pause?'

The panda holds up his hands and says 'I was born with them' Is this a bot or a novelty account? Dad? Shit, I just turned 38 a couple weeks ago &amp; i feel the same way. 

Time flies once you're out of high school I guess. I think we all have a special link with the time period of our lives as teenagers.  You spend those years creating your own identity, distancing yourself from your parents, listening to your own music, etc.  I feel the same way about the mid 90's that you do about 2004. mca lives on in my user name :) I would have said it was last year.  I remember some band (Coldplay?) at the weenie roast doing a cover of Fight for your right to party like the week after he died. [It was Coldplay](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LVr4UP9ntLs) Pennywise did one too
I was there...my friend and I made shirts saying rip mca Time speeding up. Fucking climate change. Thanks, Obama! What about old double barrel Joe! agree..... "If you can feel what I'm feeling then it's a musical masterpiece/ If you can hear what I'm dealing with then that's cool at least/ What's running through my mind comes through in my walk/ True feelings are shown from the way that I talk" And this is me y'all I emcee y'all

My name is MCA

And I still do what I please And now I'd like to introduce... What's up? I'll pass the mic to D, for a fist full of truth. The name is D y'all, and I don't play. And I can rock a block party til your hair turns gray. So whatchu sayin? I explode on sight I explode on sight  "Wow, the Beastie Boys! I have all five of your albums!"

"That was a thousand years ago. Now, we have seven."

Hmmm...

Licensed to Ill, Paul's Boutique, Check Your Head, Ill Communication, Hello Nasty, To The Five Boroughs, Hot Sauce Committee, Part 2...

I've never been both more mind blown and sad that Futurama accurately predicted the future...

(Do we count The Mix Up?) Let's not forget the In Sound from Way Out That's made up of songs from multiple albums though. In 7th grade, I was going through the confirmation process at my church (a really awesome, progressive place.. I am not religious but at the time it was a great environment).  

As part of this process, a member of the church acts as a sponsor and helps you manage the steps and tasks leading up to confirmation.   My sponsor was the aunt of Adam Yauch.. and when he was in town for a show (this was around the time "Sabotage" was airing on MTV), I was invited out to dinner with my sponsor, Adam, and Adam's grandmother.

It was a really cool experience.  Adam invited me to the show later that night and I got to hang out backstage.  Imagine being in 7th grade, walking backstage and DJ Hurricane is lounging around with a huge entourage, passing a blunt around.

It was pretty intense but Adam was a great host.  I got to hang out on the sound stage during the show, and then spend some time back stage.  I was a HUGE inconvenience I'm sure (he was talking to a really, really attractive girl but spending time with me) and he waited around an extra 90 minutes because my ride was late.

Even in my brief experience with him, he was a really, really awesome and nice guy and made a little 7th grader from the Midwest feel pretty cool for a day.

It was very sad to hear that he passed.  Fame and fortune can corrupt some people, but from what I experienced and what he demonstrated, he used his influence to make the world a little better than he found it.

Very sad that he's gone. Say what you want about them in general, but Coldplay's tribute that night at the Hollywood Bowl show is pretty damn good.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LVr4UP9ntLs The crowd screaming over Chris Martin during the "it's the beastie boys!" Makes me burst out into tears every time I watch it. Ah fuck, it got me.  Maaannn I don't cry, and here I am crying. Me too.  Didn't expect that to happen, but it makes sense since I basically grew up with the Beastie Boys.   Part in question starts at 3:10 Yeah, that is one hell of a payoff for sticking around to the end of a Coldplay video. It is a pretty great moment, given the circumstances. /r/fission /r/Frisson 

I think that's what you mean.

 That was beautiful. at first, i was like "if this is fight for your right, i am done here." then I am tearing up at the end. ooooffff feels.  Never seen that before, thanks! Never seen that before, thanks for posting...def got my cheeks all wet.  /r/happycrowds  Ah, I totally forgot about that. Thanks for reminding me :) Excited to watch this later, thanks. Is this from a live DVD or something? This was incredible. I've always loved Coldplay's covers but hadn't heard this one.  The youtube comments got me really bummed out when this first came out. A great tribute to an awesome man, but all those fuckers wanted to do was bitch about Coldplay. "Coolin' on the corner on a hot summer's day. Just me, my posse and MCA." "A lot of beer - a lot of girls - and a lot of cursing" "Pass me the scalpel, I'll make an incision. I'll cut out the part of your brain that does the bitchin. Stick it in formaldehyde and put it on a shelf, you can show it to your friends and say 'that's my old self'"

R.I.P MCA MCA killed it "Season's change when it comes their time   

Falls brings the winter and on back to springtime " I miss MCA and the Beastie Boys...

Hip Hop will never be the same. I forget the comedian, I remember a joke about how it was kinda mind blowing that the biggest hip hop group at the moment was three Jewish kids (around when Ill Communications dropped)...  I really, really love their older music.  The instrumentals on *The In Sound From Way Out* are forever some of my favorite songs. Chris Rock.

Black guy was the best golfer in the world and the best hop hop was some white  Guys.

Edit, here is the fulll quote: 

You know the world is going crazy when the best rapper is a white guy, the best golfer is a black guy, the tallest guy in the NBA is Chinese, the Swiss hold the America's Cup, France is accusing the U.S. of arrogance, Germany doesn't want to go to war, and the three most powerful men in America are named "Bush", "Dick", and "Colin." Need I say more? If Chris Rock made that joke, it was surely about Eminem.

I am a huge fan of the Beastie Boys, but neither together or separate do any of them make the best rap group or rapper. So what you're saying is, they're just 3 MC's and 1 DJ? and they be getting down with no delay Mix Master Mike whatcha got to say? Mix Master, cut faster!  I remember him making that joke, and it was definitely about Eminem. Definitely about Eminem regarding the joke. However, I would argue that they were one of the best rap groups from that time. Best beats, clever rhymes and always changing their sound with each record. They truly did it all. 

RIP Adam. You are and always will be missed. Yeah I definitely agree as a whole, there aren't many that compare as a hip hop group. Individually, obviously they are not at that level, but they never tried to be. They have the funkiest beats around in that album When the Dali Lama publicly laments your loss, you know you did right in the world. Let us take a moment to remember MCA as he fought for our right to party. He did much more than that. For one, he fought against the misogyny and homophobia in hip hop that he felt the Beastie Boys were partly responsible for promoting in their early career. 
&gt;I want to say a little something thats long overdue/ The disrespect to women has got to be through/ To all the mothers and sisters and wives and friends/ I want to offer my love and respect to the end.

He was also one of the first prominent celebrities to support the Tibetan independence movement. 

He wasn't just a legendary symbol for youth and independence, he wasn't just a beloved musician - he was an innovator, a philanthropist, and proof that it is possible to be famous and keep your integrity.  One thing about them.  They used their "popularity" for their view points but they never came across to me as "famous."  They always stayed the same level headed guys that appeared in the beginning.  Just more mature as they got older. That's great.

But, let's not forget that there was a furtive, awkward, lonely boy with an immense passion to party, holding a Sanyo casette recorder next to the panelled wall in his basement so the power cord wouldn't fall out because all of the C-cells were dead and that's the only way he could memorize every single rhyme on the first of two rap albums anybody in middle America had ever heard of.

I'm glad the Beastie Boys matured, and no one disputes their intellectual prowess.

But I listened to them because they ran it from White Castle to Hell's Gate, and didn't give a shit what anyone thought.

Besides, their 'misogyny' was never more than sophomoric shenanigans.  Everyone has to pay homeage to the bullshit, somtime.  Even 'the old one'. That's a good point, and his point doesn't negate yours, nor vice verse. Same for me, I had 2 cassettes at that age. This, and GnR. I was at a family reunion, and the dj was playing beastie boys all night, then stopped Paul Revere to tell us that MCA just passed away, It was very weird timing I think I was 8 or 9 when I was invited to Adam's wedding many years ago.  

He ended up marrying a close Tibetan friend of my family.  I faintly remember the wedding reception in NYC but I clearly remember we went to his apartment soon after for my family to meet with his wife's for a visit and their newborn baby. I do remember that he seemed like such a cool dude.  Adam was extremely humble and felt like he had a warm calm to him.  He was really engrossed in our culture and had numerous Tibetan artifacts (statues/thangkas) at their place. 

 Very true, he was a great man, and somewhere or is that everywhere, pighalf's comment made MCA laugh as it did me.
Nice memories... He was also friends with the dalai lama  Yeah, I always thought that was super cool. I'm surprised there haven't been any typical, "I like the Beasties, but MCA shouldn't have used his position to shove typical feminist propaganda in my face" comments yet!  He is the chancellor of all the big ones!  [I Want To Offer My Love And Respect To The End...](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhqyZeUlE8U) When Fab Five Freddy calls you a hip hop legend, you know you've done something incredible. I'll always love the Beastie Boys. 

RIP MCA Long Live Nathaniel Hornblower. 

http://www.wearysloth.com/Gallery/ActorsC/tve26793-20110421-2285.jpg He did come up with the original idea for Star Wars, after all.
 I still hate Mike D for that bike crash that canceled the only BB show I ever had the chance to buy tickets to. FUCK YOU MIKE D!!! :P  

RIP MCA! It also may have inadvertently caused the break up of Rage Against The Machine, who was supposed to go out of that tour with the beasties.  Double-fuck you Mike D!   

P.S. Your gold is shinin', just like an icicle, you fucked my concert tickets (and R.A.M.) with your lowrider bicycle!

Edit - RIP MCA! I Love you guys! OMG, I was supposed to see them in New Orleans for that tour! They made it up to me seven years later when I saw them in Santa Barbara for my 30th birthday.

That was the last time :( I remember being glued to MTV waiting for them to announce the LA date then the crash. I'm still sad about it even though I've seen the Beasties 3 timea https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hCXGFU0JKUg I always loved the beat drop back in the days when I had 4 12's in the trunk. Damn that was a good time to be a teenager.  That was awesome! &gt; In May 2013, to commemorate the one year anniversary of his passing, Palmetto Playground in MCAs Brooklyn neighborhood was renamed Adam Yauch Park.

I had not heard that. Very cool. I can still listen to Paul's Boutique back to front. They were so, so good. Paul's Boutique is AMAZING. Sounds of Science is probably one of my top five favorite songs.  The fact that the Beastie Boys will never make another record is a void in music that can never be filled. Still sad and shocked that he is gone! Remembering Adam.  http://www.elle.si/media/cache/upload/Photo/2012/05/04/adam_i600.jpg A Year and a Day from Paul's Boutique is my go to for a flourish of Yauch I remember sending of a SASE for something and got the lyrics to that song back with it. Maybe it was just for that. "I'm fishin' in my boat and I'm fishin' for trout.." *pours out brass monkey* I live in the UK and I am in my forties. Licensed to ill was the second album I ever bought (on cassette, after mj's thriller), when first released.

When I was 17 I started a 'rap group' with 2 friends who knew all the lyrics on the licensed to ill album. Embarrassing now, but over one summer we recorded several cassettes of (poor quality) beastie-boys inspired/cloned tracks at home in my room.

Saw them live 4 times over the years. Once was in '92 as part of a small crowd just as 'check your head' came out and the boys just blew the roof off the marquee club in London. I'll never forget that particular night. (The tinnitus lasted for about 2 days). 

Learned every single word to Paul's boutique, with a little help from the almost-impossible-to-read cassette lyric sheet. A few years ago I purchased a turntable just so that I could listen that album on vinyl and see the sleeve in all its glory ! I also made my own t-shirt with "the best in men's clothing - call (718) 498 1043" printed on it. 

The b-boys inspired a teenage dream to visit NYC. I wanted to have my photo taken in front of the worlds fair globe, and I wanted to stand on the corner of Ludlow and Irvington street. It's a big trip and it was something I could never have afforded back in the day, but I am pleased to say I've been there 4 times now, and I paid homage to the b-boys in my own way each time.

On the day Yauch died, I had been playing check-your-head in the car on the way to work. I was working with a team of people who had barely ever even heard of the beastie boys. When I read the news, I felt suddenly and totally lost. Surprised by how hard it hit me, I took myself somewhere quiet and cried. 

Rip AY

"No-one really knows what I'm talking about, yeah that's right, my name's Yauch"

 My favorite Yauch lyrics are (all of Buddavista Vow but specifically these lines):

"If others disrespect me or give me flak
I'll stop and think before I react
Knowing that they're going through insecure stages
I'll take the opportunity to exercise patience
I'll see it as a chance to help the other person
Nip it in the bud before it can worsen
A chance for me to be strong and sure
As I think on the Buddhas who have come before
As I praise and respect the good they've done
Knowing love can conquer hate in every situation"

That and "I got more suits than Jacoby and Meyers"  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_PzYMgY-Pqwa

This performance still gives me goosebumps. RIP MCA I dig this one too

https://youtu.be/zD54Wtio-oQ?t=162 Totally got goosebumps maps as well. Amazing performance.  RIP adam! Beastie boys- when rap met rock. Aka when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object. Music lost a pioneer in the industry. Sad news! :( It hurts and sucks to see this title now, just as much as it did back then :( RIP MCA I'm sad that I didn't have the chance to see him live. 
I'm glad that he had enough time to make the music he did in order for people to know his musical genius. RIP MCA was the first celebrity or famous person that I was affected by when they passed. 

The bboys are my all time favorite group of all time. If I could go back in time and live in any place, I'd choose NYC in the late 80s early 90s to see those funky mofos play. Can you imagine their energy? 

RIP I done did a remix for MCA back then - [Root Down](http://universalconstructors.com/beastie%20boys%20-%20root%20down%20-%20untidy%20crab%20remix-128.mp3). RIP dude. My name is MCA I gotta a license to kill.
I think you know what time it is ...

Everytime I hear his name, those lyrics play in my head. Up vote for Paul Revere reference.


RIP to the beat poet supreme


"you think this story's over but it's ready to begin." I always feel a little sting of sadness when I listen to the Beastie Boys nowadays, but I will absolutely never tire of their music.  **YOU CAN'T ROCK THE HOUSE WITHOUT THE PARTY PEOPLE** These guys were more than just a pioneering rap group, or even pioneering white rap group. Their instrument material is fantastic and I highly recommend *In Sound From Way Out* or *The Mix-Up*. Funky, groovy and catchy.  I remember hearing the news. I had to do a eulogy in my speech class right around the time he passed, so I decided I'd do mine on him. I wish I still had it, it was full of cheesy lines from their songs. He was a legened Oh dude please find it!?  I wish I could. I lost a lot of papers moving a few states over. I just remember the closing line was: "I'm sure he's fighting for the right to party in heaven."  LONG LIVE ADAM YAUCH! ONE OF THE GREATEST CREATIVE GENIUSES AND KIND SPIRITS TO EVER WALK THIS PLANET! FELLOW LEOS AND ALL OF MAN MUST BOW THEIR HEADS. LONG LIVE MCA!!! Has it really already been 3 years?

Damn Well how you feeling MCA? 
Well I feel right
I speak my words on the track 'cause the track sounds tight
Well if you're feeling good and you're feeling right
Somebody step up and grab the mic *Don't like to fight, don't carry a piece; wear permanent press so I''m always creased.*

Bad ass.  I was devastated when I found out he passed. He was my favorite out of the three. RIP Adam "MCA". So I happened upon the movie *Krush Groove* randomly in the first time in over twenty years. Anyone interested in seeing some 20 year old Beastie Boys (amongst many others), you should check this out. 

Sad day, indeed. I watched that movie *just* because it had the Beastie Boys in it.  I was in middle school (late 80s/early 90s) and it was difficult to find back then.  As I recall I remember their behavior was cringe worthy but that's what made them who they were during the Licensed to Ill days.

Paul's Boutique will forever be my favorite Beastie Boys album and MCA please RIP.  We miss you brother. Paul's Boutique is my favorite album ever. It's like a tour of the sound universe. I have my Beastie Boy tshirt on today in respect!! RIP! It is amazing how fast time goes. Who still has original Cassette of License to III? PLEASE submit a Picture!! [If you can feel what I'm feeling then it's a musical masterpiece/Hear what I'm dealing with then that's cool at least](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpsvBvwRuf0) I remember that day very well. My roommates, much older neighbor, and I sat on our front stoop bumping Beastie Boys all night drinking. This was in the student ghetto (yeah, that's what they call it) of Albany on a Friday night and the streets were pretty full with traveling party goers. Throughout the night people would come over, chill for a bit, have a drink and listen to some Beasties before heading off to their next destination. It actually got to the point where the cops patrolling the streets stopped and checked to make sure everything was cool. Surprisingly they didn't give us crap for the open containers/loud music/suspicious smells as it was post kegs and eggs.

The best part of the experience was when a hot rhyme or memorable MCA part would come on. All the conversations would slowly die down and collectively everyone would begin to rip the portion of the song. Upon completion everyone would root, cheer, slug some beer, smack hands, and laugh. It was like a celebration. 

 R.I.P. Lord Baelish He was a good man. Too sweet to be sour, to nice to be mean.  I remember being at a movie theater seeing The Avengers the day he died. At the theater I saw a guy wearing a shirt that said "RIP MCA" and remember thinking "he died TODAY! How does he have a shirt already?!"  Why MCA? 

Y. . [Rip](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=qcOUo3ts0wI) I still remember finding out that Yauch had cancer. There was an email in my inbox from the Beastie Boys with the subject line "HOUSTON WE HAVE A PROBLEM". [Here's an article](http://www.popmatters.com/feature/114947-mcas-heavy-news/) that covers what was in the email.

One of the best concerts I ever went to was a "Dress to Impress" show the Beastie Boys put on. They encouraged the audience to dress to impress and the boys and their supporting musicians did so as well. They played an "instrumental" show with a lot of songs from The Mix-Up, but also played a bunch of their other tunes like Sure Shot with live instrumental support rather than the track playing and them singing over it. Everything was done right then and there and it was awesome. 

Also, I used to have an emergency Beastie Boys mix tape in my car (before the days of the ipod and mp3's) so that when there was nothing good on the radio, I could just pop that in...  A good mix tape to put you in the right mood.

RIP MCA. mca was with it. and hes my ace, so i grabbed the piano player and i punched him in the face. Worst birthday present I ever got .. :(

RIP, MCA.  My favorite rapper of all time  Sucks so hard there will be no new beasties albumns, I have some amazing memories of concerts in vancouver, and listening to albumns. It's been awesome introducing their music to my kids, my nine year old son even wants turn tables now and walks around beat boxing!  Damn. It can not have been three years. RIP  Lost a great. Much love to the family and boys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_rDklqPG5pU R.I.P -yauch, a true master of his craft, a gentle soul. Man..3 years ago I was at work when my homey came up to me and told me that MCA died. And I happened to be wearing one of my Beastie Boys t-shirts that day. He's so cool. Still is, as death doesn't take the awesome away, stay cool MCA. Sucks that he died on my birthday. :( A B-boy friend did [this](http://reddit.com) on Union Square with a few other Buddhist friends for MCA day last year (MCA was buddhist). Check out [his youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/user/Chemistry)! Got the chance to see them live in concert 2 times.  Once during a Lollapalooza where they stole the show 100x over, and then again in Detroit where they tore the roof off this establishment.  It was incredible.  

Always crank it to 11 whenever they come on the radio, because it should be that way. It's ok . . . he is in Brooklyn now. Still got more juice than Picasso got paint. Rap in Peace, MCA Also more rhymes than Abe Vigoda This was the first celebrity death that honestly affected me. Such a huge part of my childhood and teenage years. I remember going to the bar that night, and listening to all the old cuts on the jukebox. It wasn't one of those fancy download capable ones, but it was Beastie Boys non stop all night. RIP MCA Jammed to "Make Some Noise" on my way to work today Miss you MCA One day I will donate my salivary glands so people like MCA can live. I remember this like it was yesterday. I was at a Rise Against show in Indianapolis and we got the news from Tim Mcllrath. They were playing Beasties songs over the PA between sets all night. I have two sock monkeys named m.c. clause and d.j. frost who help me break off b boys rhymes for my son. Mike d and adrock should totally make these monkeys happen on sesame Street! Pour one out! This leaves me sadder knowing this today than it did the day it happened. I know exactly where I was, visiting family in Louisville and my cousin sent me a text asking if I heard. I just started crying. I may have one regret in life, never seeing them live. miss you homie every day That would be it.... But what if it wasn't? Four and three and two and one (What up!)
And when I'm on the mic - the suckers run (Word!)
Down with Adrock and Mike D. and you ain't
And I got more juice than Picasso got paint
Got rhymes that are rough and rhymes that are slick
I'm not surprised you're on my dick(Mike D!) [He fought and possibly died for my right to party, so...](http://40.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lydn3wfYGZ1qh3rg5o1_500.png) Crazy! I wore my beastie boys shirt today before reading this.
 Respect to MCA...I feel in my opinion he gave one of the [best opening tracks ever](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6FCyxY12a9U) it's true personality, it couldn't have been done any other way. Smooth, organic, and just fuckin' funky. We all miss you. I remember getting license to ill for my 16th birthday. My sis said if I didn't like it, she'd give me cash for it. I learned the lyrics to Paul Revere very quickly. [Enjoy.] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tEM3dW2oWW4) Legend. I had a Beastie Boys marathon listen today at work. The Illest 3 MCs &amp; 1 DJ!! R.I.P. MCA. Beastie Boys Forever! feels like its been longer than 3 years of shoutouts  Please remember this day every year.  We can't forget the good ones. Guys, let's remember those partying rights we fought to secure, in his memory.  RIP Adam. What a tremendous loss. "Now I got to pass the mic to Yauch..." MCA you are missed . [Youtube version](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eu7Z6y3gU1M) we need a bot for this... I agree nobody should have to visit facebook.... Any ideas on how to efficiently find the YT versions of videos on FB without reuploading the thing? For example, in this case searching for the FB vid description yields no results on YT. Incidentally, youtube search could really be way better than it is. It's owned by Google, dammit, and as far as I know, the search only encompasses titles.

How about comments, descriptions, and captions? All appropriately weighted of course. You're Google, this is search, get it together.    I wouldn't add comments into the algorithm. Youtube comments are a cesspool of toxicity and random unrelated bullshit/ads Sure, but as a software company, they should be able to work around that. I can, off the top of my head, think of at least 3 ways of making use of them.

1. Make use of like/dislike, the latter of which actually does nothing right now, and only take into account comments with more than 10 likes and fewer than 5% dislikes.

2. Look for bigrams that appear a number of times in multiple comments. 

3. Only use comments by commenters with more than 500 subscribers If you put the title of the post into Google and go to the Videos tab, it's the first result. Yes, but can we assume that the majority of all Facebook videos being posted either have the title of the Reddit post identical or the description on FB? ALL HAIL RES! Actually I've been thinking about making a bot that does just that. Would /r/music allow something like that?  Sweden is the 3rd biggest exporter of music, after the US and the UK. Recently noticed that they play Tove Lo, Icona Pop, SHM and Avicii way more on the radio in Australia than they do in Sweden.  Til Tove lo is.. Norway has been doing well lately too!  All that scandinavian music makes me happy :)

Also, I can't stop listening to [Jag Kommer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wtg5cTQ1WTs) - haha :) It get's even better when you figure out that Jag Kommer also means "I'm cumming". That's literally what the lyrics are about. It's about her reaching climax.

(Still an awesome song though) And I personally would like to thank Norway for bringing in [Lido](https://soundcloud.com/lidogotsongs) and [Cashmere Cat](https://soundcloud.com/cashmerecat) who've gotten pretty big over the past few years in the EDM community :) If we're talking Norway, you gotta give props to [Todd Terje](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gHiqPG0526U) I give him props for a great song and also turning me onto the filmaking of Kristoffer Borgli An enthsiastic thumb's up for Cashmere Cat. Cashmere cattttt Don't forget about Kygo, he looks like a rising star. Damn, Lido's got some good shit. Little bit of trap, little bit of breakbeat; don't even know what to call his style. Never heard of him before this, but thanks for putting me on to him. Check out his side project/alter ego [Trippy Turtle](https://soundcloud.com/trippy-turtle) :). Genre is Jersey Club, which is more upbeat and follows a fairly repetitive kick.  Thanks man! I appreciate it. He's got some really cool stuff. Yeah of course! Future bass is what Lido's been pinned as, if that helps for his earlier stuff. He's been switching it up now though. Sorry, I had forgotten to answer that question earlier aha

This track has been removed from Lido's SoundCloud due to copyright reasons, but I'd for you to check it out as well. 

[Disclosure - Latch \(Lido Remix\)](http://www54.zippyshare.com/v/astsufIZ/file.html) The guitars remind me strangely of The Strokes. You should listen to Todd Tjere and Casiokids!  As a Brit, I'm amazed at how well British music artists do on the world stage. We seemingly have very talented people when it comes to music but seem to suck at everything else. You also happen to speak the world's most widely spoken language. sweeden looks like its run by the most competent fuckers in the world I'd say the legions of Dutch DJs disagreewith that top 3. We're sorry. No we aren't! Fuck yeah us for all the Metal we create. And fuck yeah Finland for being our partners in crime. &gt;And fuck yeah Finland for being our partners in crime.

Yeah don't forget about us! Some choice examples:

* [Apocalyptica](https://youtu.be/fHM7gL0bLPo) (heavy metal on cellos)

* [Nightwish](https://youtu.be/AcyTR5mEC_E) (symphonic metal)

* [The Rasmus](https://youtu.be/_ao2u7F_Qzg) (vaguely punk pop rock that became more gothic over time) &lt;- they are excellent in concert

* [Battlelore](https://youtu.be/qw8eDpGTjI8) (LOTR-themed heavy metal) &lt;- I'm not too keen on them personally, but the idea of a Lord of the Rings-inspired metal band is cool

My personal favourite:

* [HIM](https://youtu.be/PMD1k16baVE) ("love metal") &lt;- I would kill for a voice like Ville Valo's.

Actually I can't decide which is my favourite HIM song, so here's a few:

* [Rip out the Wings of a Butterfly](https://youtu.be/TfWSYaIUaWY)

* [Heartkiller](https://youtu.be/V5L9pvwKSjE)

* [Tears on Tape](https://youtu.be/9hieTGR0djU)


EDIT: [And let's not forget Finland's greatest contribution to music](https://youtu.be/y6120QOlsfU)

 As a Folk Metal fan myself, I was thinking of Korpiklaani, Ensiferum, Wintersun, Finntroll, etc.

&gt;And let's not forget Finland's greatest contribution to music 

[dat 2007 dankness though]
(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=faQSs6UBDok) I like a lot of Korpiklaani's stuff but Falconer is my favorite by far for Folk Metal (Its swedish though) [Korpiklaanis Ieva's Polka ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a247R3mNs5A) is one of the best things I've heard in many, many months. Swedish and Finland folk metal is amazingly good. This is one of the signs of a great song: It's great regardless of the style it's being played in. Wow, The Rasmus took me WAY back for a second there... completely forgot about them. My Finnish great-aunt (I'm half-English, half-Finnish, born and raised in UK) actually introduced them to me when I was like 12 by sending me Dead Letters for my birthday, and I was hooked instantly. Every now and then I 'rediscover' them in my iTunes and the nostalgia kicks in. Don't forget about Kalmah or Mors Principium Est. Carrying the torch of highly technical melodeath proudly! My favorite is Sabaton. Thanks for them. Fuck yeah is right! In Flames, Soilwork, Dark Tranquillity, Scar Symmetry, the Haunted, Amon Amarth, Opeth, Arch Enemy, Meshuggah... Hell, Sweden is responsible for *most* of the music I like!  Abba makes up for it.  That drumline solo was... dope. As. Fuck. Definitely my favorite part. I was impressed by all of it, but I let out an audible "damn" when that slapped me in the face I think it sounds very cool. Also its awesome that they played this for their king.  Yeah, the fact that it still sounds cool when a marching band plays it highlights what a well written song it is. Almost any song can sound amazing in a Marching Band arrangement. Depends on the composer and the band, but almost any source material can turn into something awesome. I disagree. Many modern/pop songs sounds great when they have "that special sound", but are mediocre or bad when played with other instruments. 

Other songs have such an amazing melody that they sound fantastic, no matter if they're played on a violin or a kazoo. 

Source: Have played in a marching band for close to 30 years. Have played some really shitty arrangements for good songs.  Aqua's Barbie Girl was probably the worst.  [Maybe y'all just sucked](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NAnsIhWc-VY) [IMHO This is 10x better.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tRhUDSAbCOc) That was actually pretty amazing Yeah, the fact that it still sounds cool when a quartet plays it highlights what a well written song it is. ;D Personally, I feel that this rendition of the song doesn't capture the profundity of its eloquent and exquisite lyrics. Truly, a sublime piece of art to rival Mozart. Is this your first comment after 8 months of lurking with an account? I'm honored. To be honest, that sounded like a huge mess I mean, it's the Columbia marching band.  We ain't talking pros here.  Given the setting, yes. Just imagine what a better organized band could do. Yeah I can give some context as Columbia student. Our band is notoriously bad and more known for not giving a fuck and their humor. This is also in a library, terrible acoustics. www.youtube.com/watch?v=7ydyh9l_jao Dude, Darude Dandstorm can be played on any instrument. Not that it's a bad song but, it's hardly music of the highest quality.
Edit: *Sandstorm. I really don't want to change it because it's quite funny. [Toy Trumpet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N2Lq5VMS0pw)
 that was incredible I really do love this video whenever I see it posted. One of the few reposts I don't mind at all. 

However, I would like to take the opportunity to point out something out: this guy is clearly a real trumpet player. He nails advanced techniques like double and triple tonguing and multiphonics (playing more than one note at a time [though I'm sure it's much easier to accomplish by overblowing on a toy trumpet than a real one] through an instrument) with great precision and dexterity.

Great video, even better musician. Yeah I could see that being bad on the ears. Lets do some tupac then  I dunno how the rap would work out but California Love would sound awesome.  [You asked, and you shall receive.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eAsBJ9-RPX0) Is that at the Catalina Wine Mixer? Is there a subreddit/playlist with modern song performed by marching band? I really love how this turned out!  Yeah, he actually likes SHM. The King recently said in an interview that this is actually his favourite song currently. Something about this song lends itself to being [covered](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kGDQd0xJU9g) in every genre imaginable. At [0:05](https://youtu.be/kGDQd0xJU9g?t=4s) look at the dude on the drum  Hahaha that made my day. Thanks. I think in that split second he saw every secret kept deep inside in my soul. [He sees all of us...](http://i.imgur.com/VTg2tqX.jpg)

 "into my father eyes"

Timed perfectly  PMJ does a lot of this type of musical translation into another genre. They are actually really talented musicians! Check out the rest of their channel if you get a chance. Scott Bradlee is phenomenal! Is there a pandora channel for this type of conversion music? This is something I've heard a few times, but I would like to hear a lot more of it I don't know about the conversion aspect, but if you like this, you should check out electro swing or swing music, specifically Caravan Palace have a pretty unique, well-polished sound. I give my nod to Parov Stelar in the same genre. Awesome, will do.  Thanks for the suggestion. I dunno if you saw it, but another user recommended parov stelar. I've heard them too, and they're definitely good. I'll check it out.  Thanks But then again, they cover so much in that style. [A facebook link?!?](https://i.imgur.com/CRumsLk.gif) To be fair, Facebook is the original source What he said! It's the Swedish Army Orchestra's Facebook page, not your buddy Bobby's Facebook page who recorded a 240p YouTube version with his cheap ass Android phone and then posted to it Facebook. Either way it goes through [facebook's video transcoding](https://i.imgur.com/HF9FmkL.jpg). Facebooks [image transcoding unit](http://www.dedoimedo.com/images/physics/zombies-bollocks-guy-knows-everything.jpg) Dude, Android flagships can record 4k video... Well androids flagship phones aren't exactly the cheap ones

Cheap ass android /= flagship android Ahm ahm: welcome to ~~2012 2013 2014~~ 2015. Android phones have 720p as a standard, and 1080p on flagships. iPhones got to 720p not too long ago (iPhone 6). To be fair, he did say cheap-ass, which could also imply that he's implying that said phone was older. My $40 android LG Tribute does 1080P. Oh. My $140 relatively amazing Chinese is ~~720p~~ 1080p (camera not screen). It's still relatively amazing. Wow $140 for a Chinese phone should get you 4K! $140 on a current Chinese phone **does** get you 4k recording.

4k screens are still a year away for flagships though. I'm fairly sure samsung is working on 4k screens for phones. I wouldn't be surprised if the Note 5 or 6 has it. &gt; I'm fairly sure samsung is working on 4k screens for phones.

Now that's something I simply don't understand. Why waste the battery life on such a big resolution? how in the hell did this turn into an android vs apple thing.  My android can shoot 4K too! My shit iPod Touch 4g had 720p recording. The screens are what was only recently upgraded to HD. My nexus 6 records 2160p That's not an [orchestra](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orchestra).  Orchestras have strings.

That's a marching band.

Sorry to be *that* pedantic prick... Pedantic prick! I know, right?  What's worse, I misplaced an apostrophe...don't worry, I ninja edited it out before the grammar nazis caught it.  It's not a ninja edit if people know you did it. An edit needs to be made within 2 mins (I think) of clicking submit to not see the asterisk.

EDIT: like this In Swedish we only have one word for them all, "orkester". So that would be "string orchestra" or "blow orchestra" depending on the instruments involved (so that's probably why he/she made that mistake). No, I'm sorry but you are wrong. It is a marching band, but it is also an Orchestra. Think of it like thumbs and finger, all thumbs are finger but not all finger are thumbs. 

You are thinking of a Symphony Orchestra och philharmonic Orchestra.  These are also Orchestras,  but that does not exclude Marching bands from the "Orchestra family"  Here's the thing. You said a "marching band is an orchestra."

Is it in the same family? Yes. No one's arguing that.

As someone who is a scientist who studies orchestras, I am telling you, specifically, in science, no one calls marching bands orchestras. If you want to be "specific" like you said, then you shouldn't either. They're not the same thing.

If you're saying "orchestra family" you're referring to the taxonomic grouping of Ensembles, which includes things from baroques to symphonies to philharmonics.

So your reasoning for calling a marching band an orchestra is because random people "call the small ones orchestras?" Let's get trios and rock ensembles in there, then, too.

Also, calling someone a human or an ape? It's not one or the other, that's not how taxonomy works. They're both. A marching band is a marching band and a member of the orchestra family. But that's not what you said. You said a marching band is a orchestra, which is not true unless you're okay with calling all members of the Ensemble family orchestras, which means you'd call trios, rock ensembles, and other bands orchestras, too. Which you said you don't.

It's okay to just admit you're wrong, you know? CitizenKaneClapping.gif And here, class, we have a fine example of the correct use of the Unidan copypasta. Well executed, relevant, and, frankly, fucking hilarious. If you read what I wrote to the other guy, we realized that "Orchestra" in English, and "Orkester" in swedish (which are the correct translation) means completely different things within the languages. You are completely right regarding the English meaning, and I was wrong.  But if you look up "orkester", the Swedish word on which I based my previous statement on, you will see that I was not wrong. I have learned a lot tonight and I should question what I learned in school more often.  Lol sorry, what the other guy wrote just reminded me of a copypasta. [Found here.](https://www.reddit.com/r/circlejerkcopypasta/comments/2ceq3u/heres_the_thing_you_said_a_jackdaw_is_a_crow/)

My post wasn't meant to be taken seriously :P Nice, I really need to learn to recognize copypasta  /r/atethepasta &gt; marching band is a orchestra
 
It should be "marching band is an orchestra"

Now you be fair and admit you were wrong. B-b-but...I mean...I...was wrong :(

EDIT: And I also edited it because I was wrong :( Good man. To be fair, OP is Swedish, and the Swedish word 'orkester' is used for both orchestras and marching bands (marschorkester). So even if you're right, it's an understandable mistake. I like to think of it like squares and rectangles, but that's just me

or like circles and ellipses. Actually a marching band is not an orchestra, he's right. Your analogy is inaccurate. Concert/symphonic/marching bands are all descriptors for brass/woodwind groups. Obviously they are an element of orchestras, but without strings you cannot call it an orchestra. I've played in orchestras for over 15 years.

Think of it more like a meal. The strings are spaghetti pasta, winds and brass are sauce, and percussion is seasoning. You call it "spaghetti" if it's just the noodles, and you call it "spaghetti" if it has everything. But you don't call the sauce spaghetti by itself. I have played in both marching bands and Symphony Orchestras for 10 years and counting. But you might be right. I was thinking in swedish, and from swedish it is directly translated in to "parade orchestra" or "marching orchesta". But I think you are right regarding the English meaning of the word, I just thought it was the same as it is in swedish  Ah! Yes, that would explain the confusion. Isn't it nice when the result of a pedantic exchange is that everybody is right? It quite beautiful, doesn't happen to often but when it does, it fills you with warmth. Just like good music ;)  Orchestra, 3. a. A group of instrumentalists performing concert music, esp. one combining string, woodwind, brass and percussion sections. Now also more generally: **a (usually large) group of musicians of any kind.**

-- *Oxford English Dictionary* (my emphasis)
 actually it can still be called an orchestra. An orchestra doesn't necessarily need strings. Although yes it is a "marching band", what ever you may call them, they sound great.  Sorry, but he's right. It is not an orchestra without strings, it's a band. The historical growth of orchestras derived from small string groups. 

I've played in orchestras my whole life and I've never seen a group of Woodwinds/brass called an orchestra. They're called symphonic/concert/marching bands. It's early, I read this as "Swedish Army Orchestra plays Three 6 Mafia" It's hard out here for a pimp. Sippin' on some siz-erp, sip, sippin' on some Slob on my knob


Like corn on the cob


Check in with me, and do your job


Lay on the bed, and give me head


Don't have to ask, don't have to beg


Juicy is my name


Sex is my game


Let's call the boys, let's run a train


Squeeze on my nuts


Lick on my butt


The natural curly hair, please don't touch First find a mate.
Second find a place.
Third find a bag, to hide the hoe's face.
Real name Grover, I said bend over. i misread it too and it's almost as if OP was like "but don't you worry! it's only for the king's birthday" ...and that is how I read it also.  /r/mildtitlegore I did too lol I always wonder what decisions someone makes in life that leads them to be the cymbalist in a marching band.

It's not a bad thing, but it doesn't look very exciting, either. Plus it looks a little goofy. The most utilitarian position in the band if I had to say so. Percussionists in a band like this change instruments quite often.  Sometimes song to song. Depending on the type of marching band, cymbals can be awesome. Winter percussion groups and summer corps have some [pretty crazy stuff.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7ZbZVgMtycQ) Led the cymbals in my high school MB for three years.  We jump over one another and do fun dangerous visuals. During "stand and play" stuff it's pretty boring though.
Look up cymbals suicides. For those old farts like me that don't know the [original version](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1y6smkh6c-0) Thank you. I've never heard this song before either and I'm 27.  They also played Loreens song 'euphoria' when sweden won the eurovision song contest. https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=4_yhPw-SS3g  This is even better. Epic! It's good but it needs more cowbell. As an avid SHM lover this was so awesome. Love it RIP in peace SHM F SHM made some of the highest quality EDM *ever*, I just wish they'd released more songs before they split :( They're really the reason EDM is big as it is now, they broke all expectations when they played a show at Madison Square Garden, where people thought they were crazy, from there on shows got bigger and bigger, and so did EDM. Goddamn this is awesome.


If I was the king all of those band members would be getting so drunk with me tonight, royally drunk. King Olaf the 5th of Norway used to drink with recruits. At least there is this story, I can not remember where I got it from. But there was a soldier in the Kings garde and he was a private, once when he was on guard duty he snook some woman into his guard booth and was drinking wine (which he should not be doing) and suddenly the King came in with some high ranking officers (the kings garde functions as the kings body guard so that might happen) and the high ranking officers was embarrassed and angry looking at this young man breaking the rules.

The private stood up straight and in lack of anything wise to say in this situation he said "would his majesty join me and my fianc for some wine?" and the king said yes and sat down and drank wine from a paper cup with the private. The private avoided trouble for that stunt. It's times like these I wish I knew how to make music or even play an instrument..


I now wonder how many other Swedish House Mafia songs I've heard.. This song is everywhere, but I didn't know the artist. You probably have heard Who's Going to Save the World Tonight ...and Miami 2 Ibiza
 ...and One ...and Greyhound ...and Leave The World Behind (even tho it wasn't marketed as a SHM product, it pretty much was what made them become SHM) Anyone else disappointed that the cannons in the back weren't used? NOW MAKE IT RAIN WITH SWEDISH MEATBALLS AND SWEDISH FISH WHILE THE CROWD SITS ON IKEA FURNITURE! That was the intro. Also sooo 2014. This is gold.


 i haven't seen a drum solo like that since whiplash TIL Sweeden has a monarchy All scandinavian countries have a king and queen. But only for "festive" reasons. They have no political role whatsoever [And he loves silly hats!](http://m.imgur.com/gallery/SxdNX) It must be good to be king. His ancestors lead armies against Russia and Austria; now he wears funny hats.  The funny hats keeps Russians away. Well, OUR queen looks gracious eating [hotdogs!](http://ekstrabladet.dk/migration_catalog/article3625396.ece/IMAGE_ALTERNATES/p900/Margrethe%20guffer) Do all Scandinavians wrap their hotdogs in lefse? Regular buns is more common Me Gustaf Technical. They all have a constitutional monarchy. And they do not all have a King and Queen. Denmark only have a Queen that us married to a Prince.

He want to be called King. But he is just a price because it's the Queen that is from the royal family. And then has the power. So that people don't think that he has more power then her (King &gt; Queen &gt; Prince) then he is just a prince

 he is a prince consort

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prince_consort

he doesn't want to be 'called king', that whole comment is just what.
 Yep, same goes in Britain. Sorry Philip, *Prince Consort*. They might also be relegated another title (purely ceremonial, of course, like Phil's *Duke of Edinburgh*, Charles' *Prince of Wales*, or Victoria's *Duchess of Vstergtland*) Actually as pointed out below, apparently he isn't even a Prince Consort! He's only a Prince of Britain because Queenie made him one when they were married. :o Swedish Roayal Guards has existed since 1523

TITY what a Swede gesture I think it should be the new swedish national anthem.  love that song. this is great! I always thought robbaz was the king of Sweden Who said he's not? Turns out its the kings favourites song and he requested it :)

Or atleast thats what a swedish female magazine said But did they follow up by hitting 'em with Flight of the Bumblebee?  Smaller marching bands like this sound much better than those huge ensembles.  Bass drum:  "Oh god, my life is so boring" always wanted to hear that song in brass. not bad all. I would enjoy that entire album done this way by the Swedish army orchestra. Haha we love our EDM in Sweden!!! /r/Frisson Anyone knows anything similar to this? EDM/House music covered by marching band/ orchestra. Gave me goose bumps! that was really well done. thanks for the post. Okay... am I the only one that looked at this and went "they're just allright"?

I mean, they're good musicians, but they really need to work on dressing ranks mid-move, and the drum solo was kinda pedestrian.  

It really looks like something my college marching band would put together in two weeks before a football game rather than something DCI level.  And these guys are the national army orchestra?

Great song choice, well executed musically, but I'm really surprised at the small size of the group and the lack of polish on the marching skills.


&amp;nbsp;

FOLLOWUP EDIT:

Watched a bit more of the Army Orchestra's stuff, and I'm inclined to say that I was a bit overly harsh in my original comment.

They were excellent in [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c6iZ6hDcqKc&amp;app=desktop) video, for example.  There is a very dramatic classical military style that they've got going on there.  Of particular note are the square formations and the deliberate, timed, full-head turns to check that the ranks are dressed.  

Those head-checks are *missing* in the newer performance, and all the stuff they're not 100% on in the marching is all diagonal shit... particularly the spot where they rotated a bloody *company front* around two different axis.  That's some hard stuff to pull off flawlessly, especially if you've been trained to a different marching style than you're using.  Also of note, they're doing this on a street.  The only marker they have to orient off of is the conductor in the reviewing stand and his counterpart whom you can see standing in the back.  This is also not an ideal situation.

So, my revised theory is that the Orchestra is working some new stuff, it's early in their actual *marching* season, they're doing some hard maneuvers, and it isn't quite perfect yet.  They're clearly professionals.  This is evident in every video I've seen.  It's a picked group, the numbers of each instrument sound balanced to sound good in both indoor and outdoor settings.  Their sound is *really* good... to the point where I'd suspect them of having a really good sound tech running things, except that some of these videos were clearly from cell phone cameras.

So yeah.  A bit harsh.  Blame it on watching the video before I had my tea this morning. But can your college marching band handle an AK5 as well? ;) FN FNC for those unaccustomed to the swedish designation &gt; FN FNC

[This?](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d8/FNC_IMG_1527.jpg) Yepp  Because it seems like you know a lot more about marching music then me, why do woodwinds vastly outnumber brass instruments in small marching bands? It just makes it sound weak.  Brass is loud thats an understatement  This literally brought tears to my eyes. It's amazing what beauty humans can create sometime.  But did he get his mad shuffle on while listening? That made me want to join a marching band. Amazing. I love how they use the brass to mimic the lyrics. Wow, that was cool. I really want to watch Drumline now.  "White also railed against click baiting headlines from the media," in an article whose entire title is depressing quotes from the text. Not to mention that the entire article was quotes taken from a members only interview and posted for everyone to read. This... first thing I thought when I read about click baiting headlines, although when I first read the headline I thought it might be song lyrics. I was lucky enough to get to see his recent "$3 show" here in Wyoming last month. It was a 300 person seated acoustic show and it blew me away. If this is the way he chooses to play from now on, I could get behind it. Especially how well Blunderbuss and Lazaretto translate to this style. I will miss his nasty electrified rock out shows though. I really do think he just needs a break and am glad he's getting it. Hopefully he will come back better and stronger than ever.  But whos gonna fill up 300 seats if only 25 people live in Wyoming? 275 tourists What do you suggest I see when I visit  Jack White, he sounds like a talented fellow You should try his "$3 show". It was a 300 person seated show and it blem me away. Devil's Tower, Yellowstone, Teton mountains, Big Horn Mountains.  Maybe a surface coal mine (nearish devil's tower) if you've never seen one. Man. Could have fooled me. I saw him live last year and he put on a hell of a show. He completely rocked out and played 3 encores.  I have seen him twice solo. One time was unbelievable, the other was a good show but he seemed like he was just going through the motions. I know every performer has good and bad days like anyone else but he seems to be affected more or something.  It's kinda like he's centered his whole aesthetic on spontaneity and improvisation, and thus can't guarantee consistent quality in his performances. That is a good fucking point.  Makes ya think. All things considered, a mediocre jack white show is still a hell of a lot better than most shows you can go to.  And you have the chance to see something very special.

It happens to the best of them.  I imagine if I were a rock star, that I would love every minute on stage. And that I would feel totally empty afterwards, and it would be incredibly difficult to motivate myself to do it again.

Can totally relate. Must take a lot of energy do to big shows. Much like the song "The Load-Out" by Jackson Browne, about post-show depression. From the album "Running on Empty" no less. From the record label "Empty vessel void of purpose" I think that label falls under the umbrella of the media conglomerate "Everything Will Die And Become Dust". Which, in turn, is owned by Donald Trump. That's really dark man that is, empty until Cocaine. Quite. Honestly, how any rock musician exited the 70s alive is beyond me. I feel like Keith Richards DNA should be harvested to advance medical science. He's either a beautiful example of human adaptation or he's a vampire. Pretty sure they did this with Ozzy Osborne a few years ago  They found that he has some kind of genetic resistance to drugs. He might be fucked up but anyone else doing what he did would already be dead.  Having seen him with Black Sabbath live last year, he might be dead already. At least a cyborg. Little known fun fact: every day of 1979 a small amount of Keith Richards' blood was extracted, so that on Dec. 30th, 1979, every musician received a single drop to grant them immunity from past drug usage. "oh won't you stay, just a little bit longer" in reference to the fans "That's a sound you'll never know" Anyway, I can't hang around wasting time talking here, Jerry.

You can't?

No, I got to get going... to go to my new job.

You got a new job?

Hello!

George! Kramer just got a new job.

Really? Doing what?

I'm Jackson Browne's "Load-out" guy.

You're what?

I hang around 'til after the audience has gone, the house lights on, stage hands finishing loading up lighting gear, ushers having packed up the chairs... then Jackson comes out... plays "The Load-Out".

That's a job?

Yep.. &amp; let me tell you, George, it's very draining on the emotions.

How come I never get jobs like that?

You're emotionally stunted. I want to be in a band that gets big enough to play arenas just so we can do a really late encore of this song, literally during the load out. House lights on, people already walking out, stage hands loading lighting gear, ushers packing up chairs. It'd be killer. It would be cool, but I think it doesn't actually work DURING the load-out, because it's a fake load-out. It all fades down to just Jackson at the keyboard, but then the band roars back in for the finale and encore. Well yeah. Man you make me feel shallow. For some reason, whenever I see a band on stage, if they aren't absolutely killing it, all I can think of is what a drag it must be to play the same songs and playlists over and over and over again. Becoming a slave to your more popular songs. Same shit, different venue... do the names of the place even matter anymore?




Songs you don't even like but hit it big! What about my songs I fucking labored on! No? You want to hear that one-off I wrote after a brutally bad hang-over in 5 minutes? Fucking fine. The Jesus Jones syndrome. At the end of their careers, all they ended up doing was playing "Right Here, Right Now" at corporate events to hype up the executives and sales force.  To be fair, [he didn't really seem to mind the corporate circuit](http://www.theguardian.com/music/2003/aug/09/popandrock). Oh man, that is one of the most depressing things I have ever heard. I saw the Goo Goo Dolls a few times in one year, and during one show, John Reznik seemed so over it. He even commented about it before playing "Name", saying "This song is so old, it makes my back hurt." I really wish they would play their early, early stuff on tour, but they can't because it's pretty punk and wouldn't fly with the 45 year old  mom who looooves "Iris".  Reminds me of Sugar Ray. Their first album was pretty hardcore, there is a reason they look like a bunch of tatted up badasses playing soft pop rock.





After "Fly" took off, a more low key song on a much harder album, they kind of just went in that direction. 




Though they seem to actually have fun with it and enjoy it.




I guess there are 2 ways to go about it:




- Accept the change in direction and have fun with it, or;




- Accept the change in direction but just be a miserable prick about it.





Granted it's not all black and white, it must be difficult to labor on something that is such an important part of your identity and integrity, only just to have to go in a different direction to stay pertinent. Every 45 year old was just turning the drinking age during the arrival of "alternative" rock. This is the generation of the [original Lollapalloza](http://janesaddiction.org/img/tour/1991_lollapalooza_schedule.jpg). I think they can handle the non-radio friendly stuff.   I think you're describing a similar emotion to me, but a different way of it coming out. A sense of disillusionment with the whole thing, living a dream and then realising it isn't going to magically make you happy. I just can't help but feel like the whole thing is scripted.





"HOW ARE YOU TONIGHT [enter city name]? WHAT'S THAT? YOU AREN'T LOUD ENOUGH [enter city name]!"





Then break into the same set list all the while intertwining the same half baked anecdotes between each song that you do for every venue.


 Having been lucky enough to have toured supporting a big band, it's not so much that you feel empty afterwards, it's more like... you feel like nothing can replicate the feeling that you get onstage, going back to real life straightaway is a massive comedown from that incredible high. It's easy to see why artists go seaching for that feeling offstage, often doing themselves a lot of damage in the process. Yup can relate. I've been playing in bands for the better half of my life - it can be such a downer coming back from a good performance. All that build up, then an hour of pure energy and fun, then it's all over and you go home.  I can only imagine what it's like for a big name like White. It's no surprise with the kind of ups and downs rock stars go through.  There was a discussion about this on personal finance or somewhere... Can't recall... About doing what you love for a living... A musician said imagine writing a song, then a year later releasing it, then spending 2 years on the road, playing it over and over... And somewhere around the time you released it, you had become a better musician, and that old song that was about to be a new song, was something you no longer loved. I am still sad for that guy.  Probably why jam bands can tour for so long. Never play the same set and their songs are always constantly evolving. By the time you've finished the recording process you may already be sick of the songs you're working on.  Bear with me here, I don't know why I saw this but anyways: While reflecting on his discontent with family life Hulk Hogan once said (pre-divorce, on his reality show) "Once you sell out Madison Square Garden 20 times, bowling on a Friday doesn't exactly cut the mustard." 

I thought that was very insightful and I've often wondered about that concept with numerous folks in the public light. Not to mention, astronauts.  I saw him just a few months ago in Nashville and he seemed to be having a blast. Played several encores. Got The Raconteurs together for one of the encores. It was an incredibly loud and energetic show and I wouldn't have guessed he actually felt like this. Don't read too much into this article. Jack is known to have "moods." Half the shows.  That's awesome. I saw him in September. Great crowd and energy. During the break before encore, the group was chanting the Seven Nation Army riff, but he never played it. Only one encore. Absolute phenomenal show, but wish he played SNA. 

Really depends on the crowd, though, if a musician is going to play a real second encore. Most times people just leave after the planned encore and lights go on. Wish i could go to a show and the crowd cheers for a real encore, unplanned, after the lights are on.  i'm sure music is  big part of what keeps him going. he's one of those guys that def has a deep connection to what he plays. I've seen him three times. Every time he's come to Ohio since going solo. Freaking amazing shows. He can seriously put on a performance.  Well, you're in your little room

And you're working on something good

But, if it's really good

You're gonna need a bigger room


And when you're in that bigger room

You might not know what to do

You might wanna think of how you got started

Sitting in your little room Lalaladararararadirdidradira doraradadadada. You took me back to the day I bought *White Blood Cells*. :') Love this. Ya, it would be cool if he and Meg would get back together, but it doesn't seem like it's going to happen. I don't know Jack, but he comes off like an insufferable jackass, which would be difficult for an introvert with anxiety, like Meg, to deal with. 

Nothing and I mean nothing has topped The White Stripes for me.  These are snippets from this Q&amp;A: http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:PsNkqEkH7pMJ:thekat124.tumblr.com/post/119787777214/vault-chat-5-24-15+

I think the way the article is constructed makes these quotes stand out a lot more than in the Q&amp;A. Imho reading through the Q&amp;A paints him in a different light. Yeah that adds a little more context to the whole situation. I think had he said that and nothing else in something like a press release it would indicate that he was a little more burned out or fed up with what he was doing. 

Put into that context thought it just seems like he wants to go a different direction.  I feel this is often the case with White. He does a lot of interviews and Q&amp;As and while you can take stuff out of context and it sounds crazy or mean or egotistical, in context it's not. Like, he's discussed his relationship with Meg in depth many, many times and it always sounds like he truly cares for her and knew she didn't love being in a band. But it will come out like, "Meg ended the White Stripes" or whatever (not a real quote) when he's actually continuing to say her hatred of touring and apathy towards being in the band made him realize it was over.  It's funny because Jack's specifically making a point about clickbait articles, and this article even acknowledges it, and then goes in that exact direction anyway. I don't blame him. He seems like the nerdy band geek that became a superstar. He really came off as a huge music nerd in "it might get loud " I started to really appreciate his music even more seeing his adoration for the older musicians . Oh that was so great seeing him and the edge try to contain their composure when page played for them!  Yeah... you can watch that scene on repeat and it never gets old:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G7B767HYUqQ Jack "oh.. well i better put this shit down" 
Edge "i've been trying to do that for 40years" God i loved his section in that film. You mean the whole movie? edge- i put a delay on a delay and teh some more delay. 
 [But what happens when his effects pedals fail?](http://youtu.be/H8dZwXnMrRU) In the Edges defence he basically admits exactly this in the film. In one section he starts belting out a riff and then turns off effects as he goes to show how simple what he is playing actually is.

The Edge isn't a great Guitarist by any traditional definition. But that doesn't make him a bad musician. He's a fantastic guitarist. It's not about how fast you play, it's about the sounds you create and that's what matters the most. Exactly - being good at guitar is all relative to what youre trying to get out of it, and I'd say he's definitely succeeded there. He created an iconic sound for the band that people instantly identify with. In my book, that means he does his job well. U2, for all their faults and ego, have a distinctive sound all their own and have for a long time. The Edge is a big reason why. It's alright, he's got another 2 boards full too I'm sure haha 