What has been your most meaningful interaction with a child during filming? Or maybe from someone who grew up watching you and relayed a poignant story? Okay, here's one.

This is a very sad story, but it's real.

I got a letter from a fan who said his little boy, who was 5 years old, his name was Joey, he was dying of cancer.

And he was so ill, the little boy knew he was dying.

So the man, in his letter, asked if I would call the little boy. He said the only thing that cheered him at all in his fading state was to see Big Bird on television.

So once in a while, he wouldn't see Big Bird on some days, because he wasn't necessarily in every show. So he asked could I telephone him, and talk to the boy, tell him what a good boy he's been.

So I took a while to look up a phone, because this was before cell phones. And they got a long cord to bring a phone to the boy.

And I had Big Bird say "*Hello! Hello Joey! It's me, Big Bird!"*

So he said "Is it really you, Big Bird?"

*"Yes, it is."*

I chatted a while with him, about ten minutes, and he said "I'm glad you're my friend Big Bird."

And I said *"I'd better let you go now."*

He said "Thank you for calling me Big Bird. You're my friend. You make me happy."

And it turns out that his father and mother were sitting with him when the phone call came. And he was very, very ill that day. And they called the parents in, because they weren't sure how long he'd last.

And so his father wrote to me right away, and said "Thank you, thank you" - he hadn't seen him smile since October, and this was in March - and when the phone was hung up, he said "Big Bird called me! He's my friend."

And he closed his eyes. And he passed away.

And I could see that what I say to children can be very important.

And he said "We haven't seen our little boy smile in MONTHS. He smiled, as he passed away. It was a gift to us. Thank you."
 I just want to say I think it's amazing how much what you do impacts people's lives.  This story made me tear up.  Sesame Street was a big part of my childhood, thank you for what you do. I actually teared up as well. That was so sad.  I would not have been able to speak to the boy without balling my eyes out.  

Sucks being an 18 year old guy and tearing up so easy. Literally anything makes me fucking tear up.  

Edit: Stop it, gold? You're gonna make me cry... trust me, it's better than being the opposite. a soft heart is a good heart  

edit: holy smokes. thank you kind guilders. big softy's unite! :( I wanna give you gold. Not a lot of people let alone men know the importance of this. I'm not sure how male hormones work, but once I became a father my sensitivity went through the roof. Sad movie? Cry. Sentimental commercial? Cry. I also now unconsciously wave at every child who smiles at me on the street. Before my son was born I could count on one hand the number of times I'd cried from adolescence onward. To be honest I like this version of me much better.  I will give gold on your behalf. &lt;3  Just as Big Bird taught us   You're gonna have it tough if you ever become a parent. Anything to do with kids that is sad has become instant tear territory since I've become a father. My grandmother used to say: Once you become a parent, all kids become your kids... Came back from lunch to see Big Bird replied to me. Amazing in itself, but the story he relayed is absolutely amazing. Big Bird replied to you. He's your friend. You should be happy. Wonderful story!

I see a lot of people are giving you gold, which is great, but that money goes to reddit (which is good)... and not to places like PBS and Sesame Street, which actually help these stories happen.

So to anyone else who wants to make the world a better place:

* [Donate to Sesame Workshop here](http://www.sesameworkshop.org/partners/donate/)
* [Donate to PBS here](http://www.pbs.org/about/support-our-mission/) 

And thanks for being Big Bird. And more than it would cost to gold you will now be going there. Thank you, Big Bird Lover. And thank you, Big Bird. Wow, in all the years I've been at Reddit, I've never read a post that made me cry. What a special story and thanks for sharing it.  I don't think I've ever wanted to swear in front of Big Bird...

but fucking hell, that's got to be one of the most heartbreaking things I've ever read... I've got two little boys, both of whom absolutely *love* watching you on TV... and I remember back to my own childhood, and experiencing the story arc of you helping everyone on Sesame Street realise that Mr Snuffleupagus was *real*.... 

(I'm not sure if it was part of the intention of that story arc, but it helped me immeasurably in dealing with a terrible incident when I was very young - learning that it was possible to teach people to understand that something that couldn't possibly be *real* could actually exist (or have happened) was a really, really important part of my healing. So, on that note, a personal thank you from me.

You've changed *so many lives*... and this story has helped me to understand the power that one single person can have to influence the world in a really positive way.

You're the best, Mr Spinney. You're 900 different kinds of amazing, and thank you - from the bottom of my heart and with every ounce of sincerity - for entertaining me, and my children, for all these years.  oh boy.. there's something in my eye

EDIT: jinkies, what a lot of responses! Caroll/Big Bird has had a huge and lasting impact on multiple generations. 

The big yellow bird can still make a cynical old fart tear up. Good on you sir. Really? Because I am practically weeping.

 Fully crying in public. 

Not trying to one up you I'm just a very emotional person and this is rather embarrass. 

Edit: ing Oh yeah well I'm BAWLING on stage in front of everyone I am mid-EVA on the ISS and my tears are raining down upon the earth. I'm livestreaming my cry-sesh on Twitch, Twitter, and Photobucket.  Could you aim those tears down onto California? Looks like they need some water.  Too salty. Wouldn't help us. You should, uh, get that helmet fixed pretty soon then And his course too.

KSP taught me that if his tears are falling to the earth, he will soon follow them God dammit... I go on Reddit to distract myself from that game and this is what I find instead My suit has an airlock so I can jettison my tears. fuck me. I am on new meds, and my body is adjusting to them so I am all up and down emotionally anyway. Big Bird just made a 46 year old cynical asshole tear up. Phrasing  Holy crap I have to save the rest of this for when I'm not at my desk.   I text my wife "Why would you tell me about this while I'm at work!" I'm going to stop whining about my sinus infection now.  Irrigating your sinuses helps the infection clear up.  
My sinuses are fully irrigated right now.  [Dear lord...](http://i.imgur.com/AdiBPrO.jpg) Wow.  My son is about to turn 5 and this really hit me, thanks for what you have done and especially being my friend when I was a kid!
 This is a beautiful story. It made me burst out sobbing. The joy you gave that little guy in his final moments is worth the world's weight in gold. Thank you for doing that and sharing it with us. [Everyone on Reddit who just finished reading that...](https://youtu.be/Ox3lqBkFuJ4?t=1m28s) How does it feel to be such a large part of so many people's childhoods?  It feels wonderful.

I meet many people, and often they express how happy they are whenever the show was on, and that Big Bird was truly a friend of theirs. And they talk about their childhood, how much it meant to them.

 You've done this for 46 years. Next week, I turn 45. You were there for me when I was a child and like all children, I just loved you. Thank you so much for all the years of joy and inspiration you have brought to all of the children all of these years.

I grew up in NY and Sesame Street just so looked like it was in NYC to me when I was a kid so I was sorta miffed my parents wouldn't take me there. So, after all these years, would you finally tell us "how to get to Sesame Street??"

 Second star to the right and straight on 'til morning. And here I was certain it was in the Bowery. (That's what dad said when I asked when I was a kid lol) Don't know if you'll see this, but will try anyway... I'm a 49 year old who saw the very first episode of Sesame Street, and immediately fell in love with Oscar the Grouch. So much so that when I got my first kitten for Christmas, he was christened Oscar (a name and image he lived up to).

Just want to say thank you for being such a big part of this middle aged woman's early childhood development! Also when did Snuffy become real? Not until [Season 17!](http://muppet.wikia.com/wiki/Episode_2096) Wow I had no idea that Snuffy became real for the reason he did. That may be the thing that struck me the most about the recent exhibit at the Lincoln Center Library - how on top of absolutely everything the Sesame Street education and writing staff is to make sure the show is reflecting society.  Reading that honestly made me tear up more than anything else in this thread. Going the extra mile to really think about the psychological impact of seemingly artistic decisions and adjusting it isn't necessary for a hit show, but that approach probably has a lot to do with why Sesame Street remains relevant and appreciated &gt; In the documentary Sesame Street Unpaved, hosted by Sonia Manzano, Snuffy's performer, Martin P. Robinson, revealed that Snuffy was finally introduced to the main human cast mainly due to a string of high profile and sometimes graphic stories of pedophilia and sexual abuse of children on shows such as 60 Minutes and 20/20. The writers felt that by having the adults refuse to believe Big Bird despite the fact that he was telling the truth, they were scaring children into thinking that their parents would not believe them if they had been sexually abused and that they'd just be better off remaining silent. In addition, during Robinson's explanation, Loretta Long uttered the words "Bronx daycare," a reference to reports of sexual abuse at the PRACA Day Care Center in New York City's Bronx borough, as covered by area TV station WNBC.

That was handled amazingly. Hey there Caroll! Love all the amazing work you've done over the years!
Big Bird has quite the acting resume (from SNL appearances to a Birdman parody). What's the weirdest appearance that you've made as Big Bird? Well, one time I was in Georgia, at a small TV station, surrounded by children - Big Bird was sitting on an ottoman - and his pupil let go, and left him with one eye with a black pupil, and one eye blank white! I saw what happened on a monitor, through some feathers we pulled off, and I said "*Oh you better stop!"*

Well, there I am on television, and one eye is blank. And I said "You can't show this! You'll have to stop." It wasn't live TV, it was on tape, and they wouldn't stop, so I said "I have to apply a new eye" and they said "No, we think it's funny!" and I said "No - It's barbaric - the kids are saying Big Bird's eye fell out!" 

It's never just a puppet.

Because I feel that's diminishing what Big Bird does. He's not just a puppet.  Poor Big Bird! You have some amazing dedication and care for your characters! More for the children. That would traumatize some kids. why did Snuffy go from someone only Big Bird can see to everyone seeing him ? Well, for some time, they had a lot of people who were objecting to the fact that people weren't believing Big Bird. Because you should believe, and children don't lie (I don't think that's always necessarily true - when I was a child, although I tried to be a good kid) - anyways, they decided it was better for everybody to see it. Because Snuffy was REAL.

The only trouble, I felt, was if you missed the Thursday show, you missed everybody seeing Big Snuffy. So on Friday, he was standing around talking to everybody, and they said "What happened!?" if they didn't watch it on Thursday. I think they should have had 1-2 of them discover Snuffy, to explain what it's like not to be believed when you see something you know is true.  I watched in awe as a child when Snuffy was revealed to others. It made me so ridiculously happy that everyone suddenly believed everything Big Bird had been saying all along. Before that it was kind of heart breaking that no one believed him when I knew it was true. I was really hurt when everyone discovered Snuffy was real. I grew up with alcoholic, abusive parents who beat the shit out of me often. They never believed a word I said and often accused me of damage they did while they were inebriated. I *really* related to Big Bird and how no one believed him. It made me feel normal.  That's interesting because according to the muppets wiki that's almost exactly why they revealed him as real. They didn't want kids to not admit to things like that thinking nobody would believe them. Both sides make sense to me...  I was in high school when Snuffy was outed as real. I could sense the day was near, due to build up on the show. The day it happened, I skipped school to watch it, and actually told my friends why I stayed home. Even my teachers couldn't blame me, as it was such a big event for all of us who had grown up watching Big Bird begging people to believe Snuffy was real.

I almost couldn't believe it myself when Elmo hung on to him so he couldn't conveniently leave like he usually did. Finally everyone saw him! I was so glad to be able to watch it 'live'.

I was a lot younger when Mr. Looper died. (Hooper, Hooper!). I loved the way the show handled it, honestly, and with class. There were a bunch of pedophilia/child sexual abuse cases in the media and the Sesame Street producers felt that the adult shouldn't continue to not believe Snuffy wasn't real when he was.  They didn't want children to think that adults wouldn't believe them when they told the truth.

Honestly, I remember being mildly stressed/vexed as a child when the adults didn't believe Big Bird as well and kept missing Snuffy by mere seconds. I just met Cookie Monster in the flesh (so to speak) a few weeks ago at SXSW. I was amzed by the turnout and the reactions, including my own. Full grown adults were overwhelmed with joy, as if they were being reunited with a long lost friend.

Have you experienced this sort of thing firsthand? How do you feel, knowing that you have touched so many lives through your work? It feels incredible. Because I've had that happen a lot, when I bring out Oscar - I just say 2 words with him- and it's very nostalgic for them. And that's why they're so pleased, and excited. Because nostalgia, and memories of your happy times as a child, makes you feel pretty good! Just 2 words?? What are they?!  :-) My guess is "*Scram, kid!*" That probably annoys Oscar a lot. I'm a grown woman, and I just almost teared up at the thought of being able to meet Cookie Monster...  Several people there did in fact tear up. One woman got really emotional and hugged him. I thought she was gonna take the puppeteer's arm off. It was adorable. Most difficult thing while puppeteering?  Most difficult while puppeteering? Well...often, the puppeteer's arm gets tired. Because the puppet has some weight. And also, besides the weight of the thing, is when you're singing a song, and some words are said over and over (as songs can do) - your thumb gets tired, and can slow down! So it gets, sometimes I've had some songs where my thumb went dead on live television. So that wasn't very comfortable. My thumb ceased to work! Caroll, you have a gamers stamina. Today's episode was brought to by the letters *W,A,S, and D!*" What do you do when Oscar the Grouch and Big Bird have a scene together? I generally pre-record Oscar's lines. And I'll get in the Bird. And with Oscar's voice pre-recorded, one of the other puppeteers will move Oscar so he can talk to Big Bird.  Thanks. I also wonder, was that actually you riding the unicycle wearing the Big Bird costume? If so, how difficult was that? Yes.

I find unicycles very difficult to ride, but I can ride it.

That was a TOY unicycle, too! Wow! I'm impressed. Wow. That's amazing. How has the puppets/costumes and the process of making them changed and advanced over your career? Any advancements you're particularly impressed by?  Well, the early Big Bird legs were made out of a fabric that had plastic in it - a dangerous fabric - and all of a sudden, a lamp smashed, almost hit me, and the 2,000 watt bulb had TREMENDOUS heat, and it set Big Bird's leg on fire! I looked down, I see flames coming up into the suit - because there's a hoop I can look down and see my feet - and so I said "*I'm on FIRE!"* and it was the beginning of the show, so Big Bird was strapped to me - and now he's on fire - so one of the camera men, they didn't have any extinguishers around (they do now) - Richie King, the camera man, he's no longer a camera man, but he saved my life by smashing out the flames with his bare hands!

So now we use much safer fabrics.  AMA Request - Richie King! - Or just give the guy a medal, if he's still around Oscar, you are such a grouch. I loved that show as a child. Do you still enjoy it the same as you did when you first started? Oh yes. I love having a chance to be miserable. And Slimey! He's a really great little worm. He's learned to talk, you know.  I loved the Slimy-NASA mission. Slimey is cutest muppet. I'm thirty-eight, so this happened outside my prime Sesame-watching years, but I happened to catch parts of Slimey's trip to the moon, and it was *amazing*. I feel like Follow That Bird is an underrated Sesame Street production. Do you recall anything from the screenplay that didn't make it to the finished film? It's so funny - we love Debbie's (my wife's) family, and her family came up to Toronto when we were doing a production in that region. I told the stage manager - we were filming outdoors in the sun, that we'd like my mother in law and Debbie's sister Claudia with our little niece (I love all the children in Debbie's family, they're all great kids) - they were supposed to be extras in the film, watching Big Bird in a parade. I put them over where they would be seen by the camera, so they could see they were in the movie. And the stage manager said "I want to move them to a better place" and he moved them a place where they were *NEVER* seen at all!

Disappointment! 

 I loved that movie as a kid. It was like my *Frozen*. Hi Carroll-

What is your take on the 'Goodbye Mr. Hooper' episode? We were able to see the expressions on everybody else's face during that scene but I'm curious as to how it affected you. Was it difficult to emulate the emotions everyone else's faces showed using a puppet?

Thank you Well, I feel that I can show all kinds of emotions through Big Bird, through that puppet. I'm very emotional myself. And there wasn't a dry eye in the house during that scene, including me. When I finished the scene, it was a fairly long scene but shorter in the movie, it just... after I've done a long scene, the first thing I do is get out, and my face was wet with tears, and so were all the actors. The woman named Elena, who played Olivia in the movie, she's passed now, but she said "When Big Bird said 'But it's so SAD!' - that's it, I just lost it. I started bawling my head off."

Because we loved him. It's losing Will Lee. What a lovely man he was.  Fascinating how much care and thought they put into that episode.

From Wikipedia:


&gt; At the time of Lee's death, instead of recasting the role, the writers and producers of Sesame Street decided to create an episode that taught their young audience about the difficult topic of death. Research was conducted to ascertain the messages they wanted to convey about the topic, as well as the effect the episode would have on the young children who watched it. They were advised by experts in the fields of child psychology, child development, and religion. Studies conducted after the episode was produced showed that most children understood its messages about death, and that they experienced no long-term ill effects. The episode, written by head writer Norman Stiles, aired on Thanksgiving Day 1983; the cast and crew reported that filming it was an emotional and touching experience. The episode, which set the standard for dealing with difficult topics on children's television, was called heartbreaking yet affirming, and one of the proudest moments in the show's history.
 Wasn't the decision to air it on Thanksgiving Day made so that parents would be there watching with the kids and be able to answer any questions the kids had? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gxlj4Tk83xQ

Here is the scene discussing Hooper's death. Grab a box of tissues. I know I'm late to the party but I wanted to say that just last fall, as my mother in law was in the final stages of terminal cancer, we showed this episode to my children (age 2 &amp; 4) and I felt like it really helped them wrap their brains around death - and it gave me somewhere to start the conversation from. So thank you, I'm sure many families have had the same experience with their children.  How did you come up with the Big Bird 'snoring' routine? (I still use it when I'm looking after little kids. I pretend I'm asleep and do the Big Bird snore. It never gets old.) Haha! Well, I didn't plan to do it. I had read the script of course, to remember it, and this was in the very early days of Sesame Street. I've never been able to talk like Donald Duck, he makes a *quackquack* noise out of the noise of his mouth - and I couldn't make that sound, so I didn't plan to do it, but as I did the rehearsal, I said to myself "A bird would probably sound different snoring than a human."

So I tried going *snorrrrrt*-***whrrr-whrrr-whrr-whrrrrr!***

Out of the corner of your mouth, and shake your face, it makes it break into the sound of ***whrrr-whrrr-whrr-whrrrrr!***

I can't really do it today!

But the rest is history. 

Little children love to say "Can you make the sound of Big Bird snoring please?" Here's a clip of [Big Bird snoring](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kVMztLvd7mk&amp;feature=youtu.be&amp;t=2m5s) if you can't picture it!  (2min for mobile users) Hi, Mr. Spinney! The characters you portray have always been some of my favorite, and I'd like to thank you for the impact you had on my childhood. To what would you attribute the major success and longevity of Sesame Street? I think Sesame Street is fascinating to a lot of people, not just children. Because we tried to make it appealing to little children and to grownups. There's a period of time in children's lives where they don't like things they perceive as "made for babies." And my daughter, Jessie, loved the puppets until she was 9 or so. And then she sat with her friends, and they said "That's such a baby show." But when she got to be 13, or 14, she said she loved watching the show and got the jokes we put in for grownups.

So the children come back.

After a little period of saying "I'm a big girl now!" or "I'm a big boy now."

So we try to make the show great for EVERYBODY who wants to watch.

It's an age between 8-14, I think, where they have to feel that they're more "grown-up" than they really are.  Between the [Game of Musical Thrones](https://youtu.be/dhWUFXvaZjo) and [Frank Underwolf's appearance in House of Bricks](https://youtu.be/92NXMtVtv8o), I'm definitely loving the grown up jokes and references. Wow, the Game of Thrones thing was full of legit references and really well done. The Iron Throne being made of golf club Irons was a nice touch. 

Geoffry: "Did I lose?"

Grover BlueJoy: "Yes, Geoffry, it looks like you choked."

Geoffry: "Waaaaahh"
_____________
Ned: "You're the new King?"


Grover BlueJoy: "Yes, no need to lose your head over it Ned." that was super great, holy shit. I didn't realize Sesame Street was all over pop culture these days. I haven't watched a new episode in like 10 years at least They did it back in the day too, though I don't know how often. They did Twin ~~Peaks~~ Beaks (where the birds are not what they seem...), Queer Eye for the Straight Guy (Oscar the Grouch giving tips to nice people), Miami ~~Vice~~ Mice, Star Trek with the Starship ~~Enter~~Surprise, Law &amp; Order: Special ~~Victims~~ Letters Unit, Desperate House~~wives~~plants. Lot of surprisingly adult stuff parodied. Lethal Weapon, The 400 Blows, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, The Horse Whisperer, James Bond. Sometimes with the original/real actors participating. They're pretty good about including stuff for the parents watching. I've seen a lot of it with my nieces, Steve Carrell and Tina Fey were great in it.

That and Spongebob are definitely the two most watchable/tolerable kids' shows. You've gotta push them towards those and away from Peppa Pig if you want to stay sane. Animaniacs. Show them Animaniacs.  Also Phineas and Ferb ROB, DON'T GO TO THAT WEDDING!
 Yes, I personally like True Mud and Mad (Mad) Men. It's amazing how they can take really serious adult shows and entertain children even if they don't get the grown-up references. What's the most memorable/funniest moment that's happened to you on set? I guess the most memorable was the story we did about Mr. Hooper's death.

That was not the funniest. Let's see, funniest, hard to say? It's hard to remember individual shows, since I've done over 4,000 shows, and all of them, we try to be funny, so they're generally pretty funny.

It's hard to picture one where I laughed so hard I didn't move!

Often, some of the laughter as we're working is the stuff that we're fooling around with between scenes.  I remember the [Mr. Hooper scene](https://youtu.be/gxlj4Tk83xQ).  

I can recall that this was my first lesson on the concept of death, and it came at such a crucial time as one of my grand-parents had passed away during that young age. I didn't quite understand what it meant for someone to be dead, just like Big Bird. You helped me through. Thank you for teaching me and helping me cope with one of the hardest lessons a child can learn.

Thank you. A million times, thank you. What would you say has been your most challenging moment when performing as Big Bird? I think some of the biggest challenges were - I would conduct symphony orchestras that were children's introductions to symphonies, and I would also sing during those, so I would do 5 different things during that hour and ten minute show!

It was TOTALLY exhausting.

I almost fell off the stage at one of those shows, because I can't see well.

But one of the times it possibly could've killed me, because it was a 7 foot drop, and I would've landed on these metal chairs whose legs were sticking up stacked.

 Thanks for taking the time to answer my question. If I could, I'd give you a big hug of thanks for all the young lives you've made brighter over the years. You deserve nothing less than continual happiness. :-) My co-worker was the puppeteer for "Bear" in the Bear in the Big Blue house stage show. He has shown me how the puppet worked in that the head was opperated with one arm, and the other arm was the actual arm of Bear.

How is the puppet for big bird designed? He's built in the same workshop as Big Bird. The Bear was played by Noel McNeil, and he's a good friend. And he used to be my wrangler, the guy that helped me get into The Bird, you know, take care of The Bird. He's a very clever way. He probably wore bear feet - the suits work in the same way - so I'd put on my bird feet first, they're built like pants with feet like a bird. And then the bird is all one beast. The rest of him is lowered over me, and I reach up with my right hand and go into the head with my hand. And that's how the Bear works, too! His hand goes up into the head, and his left arm goes into the left arm of the bear. Mine is left wing. So I can run the right hand wing, and he could run the bear, the same method -- a little piece of fine fishing line you can hardly see. So when you pull the left hand down, the right hand goes up. It's like see-saws!  [Picture] (http://beta.images.theglobeandmail.com/static/infographics/0425_bigbird/big-bird-desktop.png?=1) You made my childhood, thank you! I have a distinct memory as a kid of my mom taking me out to lunch and to go see Follow that Bird, and then crying a lot for the rest of the day because I was really bothered by what happened to Big Bird. Did you ever feel that the plot for that movie was too dark? Well, it's funny, when we did it, it didn't occur to me that him being painted blue would be so sad for children!

When we'd finished the film, we had an early copy sent to us on videotape. We played it for our little nephew, Joshua.

And when he was painted blue, Joshua freaked out! He just cried, and cried, and cried. And we had to turn off the movie. And even to this day - he's in his 30's - he can't watch that movie, because it's so sad!

But I love that movie.

Not every child reacted as sadly as Josh did. But I think - I know when he was in the cage, I went to see the movie while we were in Australia, when he was caught - then the next time you see him, he's painted blue so no one would recognize him - now I think about it, having seen that much crying, I was surprised that I didn't see it would be sad.

But it has a very happy ending! There was just a news story saying how you were basically [next in line for the Challenger mission](http://huffpost.com/us/entry/7224874). How close did you actually come to going? Well, it wasn't that I was in line. I had gotten a request from the Astronauts who were going up for the next journey for one of the shuttles. And they wanted Big Bird to go up there, so children from America would be more interested in the NASA space program - because they couldn't compete with Star Wars very well.

That's what they told me in their letter.

So I said "yes!" 

Unfortunately, there was no room in the space shuttle for Big Bird to go. 

And a teacher went instead.  This is surreal.  Imagine the horror of losing Big Bird up there ... that's the first thought.  All of the other thoughts that follow are ... odd. Reminds me of the time Jackie Chan was scheduled to shoot a movie scene on the top of the World Trade Center in New York City on 9/11/01 but the schedule was changed last minute. Although being Jackie Chan it is not 100% certain he would not have survived.  Most likely scenario would be him having died while saving others, Jackies a pretty great guy Hello Carroll! Thanks for many years of edu-tainment not just for myself, but also my 5 year old son.

One question, just how much room is there in Oscar's garbage can anyway?! Well, it seems to have as much room as we want to imagine! Because an elephant lives down there, and a funny little dog, who was very grumpy, but he hasn't been on for 10 years... a swimming pool... a bowling alley... how could you have all that in a trash can?

I don't know! But he claims he does, and he believes it! Hahaha! "I Love Trash" and "ABCDEFG..." are standards of your characters. Are there some songs by them that you like that aren't particularly as popular? Oh, I've done over 300 songs, original songs, on Sesame Street! I don't write them, I just try to sing them. And one I really like, and Big Bird started the show with it one day *sings*

*Good Morning Mr. Sun!*

And it's such a jolly song, children love it. And the Alphabet song was one of his most popular songs.  I had "I Love Trash" on a 45 record as a kid, and played it more times than is probably normal.  I am now pushing 40 and while my career doesn't involve trash per-se, I still feel like a little of that grouchy old garbage dweller lives on inside me.  Thank you for all you've done!  What an amazing career. What's your favorite non-Muppet species of bird? Hahaha. I dunno. I think Chickadees? We have a lot of Chickadees where we live in the country. We were there all winter, and we would hear them call in the spring "*Chicka-dee-dee-dee-dee!"*

They're very little.  My daughter loves the episode where Elmo and Abby try to find a blue bar pigeon for Bert, so I know exactly what sound a chickadee makes. The controversy surrounding Big Bird's guest appearance in *Mister Rogers' Neighborhood* offered a solid case study of a clash of educational philosophies. Mr. Rogers, famous for his hardline approach to teaching children to differentiate between fantasy and reality ("Wishes don't make things come true"), apparently saw no problem with shattering the illusion of Big Bird, while you wished to let children maintain their belief that he was real, while their innocence still allowed for such things.

How do you feel about the disagreement nowadays? In an age of panic over video games and other media teaching impressionable children that violence is an acceptable solution to interpersonal conflict, and even some [rather convincing arguments](http://articles.baltimoresun.com/2009-12-13/news/bal-op.santaclaus13dec13_1_santa-claus-parent-kids) against teaching children about Santa Claus, do you have a greater understanding of Mr. Rogers' viewpoint? And would you argue that a philosophy of preserving childhood innocence can be reconciled with Big Bird's learning about what happened to Mr. Hooper (who notably did *not* "go to a better place")? Well, see - other people make arguments in favor of us being totally honest, that does not fit with my feeling of the joy of being a little child. I've seen a child discover me - we thought we were alone in a park, filming a scene outdoors on some great stretches of rock, we had to do a shot for a China film - and a little boy came along, and he saw me take Big Bird off! And he screamed, and cried, and I said "Quick!" - he looked so funny with his little legs, running away, crying and crying - and I chased after him, with the costume back on- and I said "Little boy, I'm okay" and he said "I thought that man was hurting you, Big Bird."  

When children see that Big Bird - Mr. Rogers wanted me to lift the puppet which is so big I have to get inside, off - it's a series of hoops that create the shape of Big Bird, and then there's netting and feathers, they're all real feathers so he looks nice and real - we found out that children would NOT have liked seeing Big Bird take it off on Mr. Rogers. I said "I'm sorry, I can't do that!" Jim Henson didn't want me to do it either.

So we made a compromise with Mr. Rogers.

And that was that I would just go to the Make-Believe Land, and say "OK, this is Make-Believe" and have some other puppeteers - a good friend of mine, Bob Brown, would show how HIS puppets worked - little marionettes on strings - they don't look so real anyway, like Big Bird did to little kids.

We're not trying to fool them, we're just trying to entertain them, and let them know that their friend Big Bird is not just a man in a giant suit.  My 5 year old son was watching Mister Rogers' Neighborhood on Amazon the other day, and it happened to be the episode where Big Bird visits the Land of Make-Believe.  

He completely lost his mind. It was the happiest I have ever seen him, and that's saying something, because he's a really happy kid.  Thank you for doing that.  I know he would not have handled it well if you took the suit off in the show. 

EDIT: Here is a link to the episode that begins the story of Big Bird visiting the Neighborhood of Make-Believe:

http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004C4ZLSQ/ref=dv_dp_ep6

Big Bird actually shows up in episode #1483, but the storyline of the art competition begins with 1481, then it is announced that Big Bird is arriving in #1482.  That actually sounds like an amazing compromise. Were you fine with that or do/did you wish you could have avoided that entirely and just entertained people?

Honestly, if there has to come a day where kids find out that the imaginary characters they enjoy aren't real, I can't think of a better way than Mr. Rogers kindly explaining it in the land of make believe. When you talk about 'avoiding it entirely', the 'it' you're talking about is a group of people so passionate about their mission to entertain and educate kids that they were having a philosophical debate about where it would be most appropriate for a giant bird puppet to interact with Mr Rogers.

I don't know about you, but I think the world would be a better place if more conversations like that took place... I'm glad there was a compromise. The Land of Make-Believe was the PERFECT place to hold that junction of reality and screen magic. Hello Mr. Spinney. First off, I would like to say that I just watched "I Am Big Bird" last night and it was fantastic. As both a Muppet fan and a documentary fan, this was both a treat and a new favorite of mine. I have two questions for you: 1) When you were approached with the idea of a documentary being made about you, what were your initial reactions to the project? 2) Is there any way I could request a personal Big Bird drawing or purchase one of your other Big Bird drawings?

Also, I'm really glad you did a "Birdman" spoof video. Thank you for all the smiles. 1.) First they asked Sesame Street if they would like them to make a movie about my life. And that was Copperpot Pictures, a small company, 3 men who run it. And we met there, and I said "Yes!" And I think it was a good time to do it, because I've been doing it so long, I have a lot of stories to tell. And I'd rather do it while I'm alive.

2.) If you go to Art &amp; Framing, in Putnam, Connecticut, it's the only place that sells my things, and they are very reasonable. I did have a place in Hawaii, they were very expensive and I thought they were charging too much.  &gt; And I'd rather do it while I'm alive.

This makes too much sense. Good thing I live in ct! welcome to reddit!!!!  I am a huge fan of yours &lt;3 thank you for stopping by...  Any cool behind the scene stories you will always keep close to your heart? We were in a different studio, doing a special show, and this girl came up to me, and she had her little cousin on her hip - she was only 3 years old - and I started chatting with her.

And I was falling in love with her. Turns out I'd met her before, but I'm not good at recognizing people at all.

Turns out we met 3 different times, and each time, I didn't know it was the same girl.

Turns out we ended up together anyway. 

Getting to be Big Bird was the second greatest thing that ever happened to me. She's the number one.

 Took me awhile to realize he wasn't talking about a 3 year old.  My heart just melted... Thank you for such a beautiful answer. Love it!!! Bravo to you two lovebirds &lt;3 Hope to see you more often on reddit. Hi Mr. Spinney!

What job could you see yourself doing if you were never to become a Puppeteer? Well, I'm an artist. I draw every day.

I guess I would have been a commercial artist. I had a comic strip when I was in the military, and I guess i would've continued doing that comic strip. It was a pretty good one. I loved looking at the funnies in the paper. So I think I could've gotten a job doing that.  You must have one of the most fun jobs in the world for so long! Do you ever plan to hang up the feathers (please say no)? Well, NO!

I suppose when I can't make him sound right? But my father lived to be very old, and his voice didn't change at all. In the end, I'd call him and say "How are you dad?" and he'd say "Oh, son, I'm fine."

So I might not feel like doing it in my 90's. But I hope that doesn't happen! I am a survivor of a terrible, abusive childhood.  Back then, helpless and trapped in a hostile home, Sesame Street was one of my few escapes, to a place that was happy, that was filled with kindness, where adults always had time to read a story, or to help, instead of screaming obscenities.  

Now, as someone who has grown up and (mostly) past the horrors of my youth, Sesame Street is still my "happy place" - a calming, soothing sanctuary in a wild, busy and confusing world. Thank you, sir, for being a part of that.

As for my actual question: The Cookie Monster parodies of pop culture that y'all have been showing recently are absolutely *hilarious* - the Lord of the Rings one, in particular, always has me in stitches. Are there any plans to place Big Bird in similar sketches? or might there be? Because that would be *awesome*. Or is Big Bird viewed too much as the avatar of childhood for that to happen?

Edit: Bearing in mind my comments above - I'm nearly fifty. Does that make you feel old? ;) Or just pleased to have filled so many years, for so many people, with so much joy? Sorry we didn't get to this. Hugs to you. This was very sweet of you to do, Victoria.  we love /u/chooter FYI, you were the *exact* child that Sesame Street was specifically designed for according to an old interview I saw with Jim Henson a while.  The educational aspect was secondary to the goal of having a show that down-and-out kids could watch and have a brief reprieve from their miserable real life.

And now I'm crying again, dammit.  Fuckin Sesame Street. Back when you performed Bruno the Trashman, how were you able to see what you were doing when performing the character? Well, I could see right out of - he was made of foam plastic, his face, and real cloth for his clothes - but I could see right out from where his eyes would be, right through the foam plastic. It's porous. So I could see. So I could see where I was going and everything. And my hands were actually inside the trashcan, held against his tummy! Thanks for the answer. This had been something I was wondering for years. What was Jim Henson like in real life?  Could you share your favorite moment with him?  

What was the most emotional moment for you as Big Bird?

Remember the Republican "War on Big Bird" when they wanted to cut funding for PBS?  I don't think I've ever seen a party reverse course that fast in my entire life on an issue.  Seeing as Big Bird seems to be a Big Yellow Political Heavy Weight - can we expect to see Big Bird run for President in 2016?   Well, he was a genius. He brain was always going a million miles an hour. And often we'd have lunch with him, and he wouldn't talk too much about what he was doing that day, he'd talk about future projects. We had fun driving with him in London. He had a Lotus Elite, a very fancy 4 passenger Lotus car made in England, and it was painted Kermit the Frog green. He selected that because it had hidden headlights, and when you turned on the eyes, the headlights popped up, they were round like Kermit's eyes, and they had a black dot with a curved line going through it, just like Kermit's! And it was the EXACT same color of the Kermit suit, the famous earlier one. And Jim liked to drive fast. That car had quite a history, even though it was only a day old! Jim went to pick it up and they said "We can't give it to you, it's just been stolen!" 

Before Jim could pick it up!

And they used it to rob a bank.

And they caught the people within the hour, and he had the car given to him later that afternoon.

So we rode in that car, in London with him, and we were in the city, we were on city streets, we went between traffic lights we went 60 miles an hour, hahaha!

Well, one time Big Bird ran for President in the late 70's. Course, he's only six years old - he was six years old then, and he's still six years old now. And of course, he'd rather be king anyway. Hahaha! Anybody have pictures of the car? 

Edit: found one
http://www.henson.com/jimsredbook/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/JH-Lotus-1978.jpg One day we'll drive it / The Lotus in lime green / In traffic, Jim Henson, and me Somebody robbing a bank / They say it was already stolen [Here's the car](http://www.henson.com/jimsredbook/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/JH-Lotus-1978.jpg)! It would be funny to imagine Kermit robbing the bank with that car, before giving it back to Jim Henson.
 TIL Jim Henson owned a felonious frog car.

That's absolutely hilarious.  

I'm having a son in a couple weeks and I'm really excited that he gets to grow up with Big Bird the same way I did.  Thank you so much for everything you've done.  You guys are really inspiring. Hi. First I want to thank you for your many years of dedication to Big Bird and children everywhere. Although it seems like Big Bird has not changed, what are some of the biggest behind the scenes changes (material or character wise) that Big Bird has undergone? Well, when Big Bird was first on, he wasn't very good looking.

He didn't have any feathers above his eyes. The top of his head, nothing was there! Didn't look like there was room for any brain, really. Now the features are applied much more beautifully, and he's much prettier now.  wow no kidding.
 
http://i.imgur.com/0I4xVc5.jpg


edit to add youtube:   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XoVOaf9DOj8

 That's from the first episode.  Big Bird was also really stupid then. Hi Caroll, thanks for being an important part of both my childhood and my kids'! Do you get recognized much in public, either by name, voice, or looks? Well, sometimes I've been recognized because I'll go to a hotel desk in California, and they'll say "What is your name" and I'll say "Carroll Spinney" and they said "*OH WOW!"*

Most children - babies, particularly - recognize me by my voice.

And lately, this past month, I've had 4 people recognize me because of the movie I AM BIG BIRD.  What is your favorite post-Sesame Street meal? Well, we have a favorite restaurant near here. It's an Italian restaurant. And my favorite dish there is a DELICIOUS filet mignon, covered with gorgonzola sauce. *Oh my goodness!*

 I'd never heard of a gorgonzola sauce. Gorgonzola is a type of blue cheese. It doesn't smell so good when it's just a cheese. But when they make it into a sauce, it's the most wonderful sauce I ever tasted.

Maybe we can go there to have lunch after this.  They make it for me anytime of the day, because I don't like eating later in the evening, usually.

So even though it's on the nighttime menu, they'll make it for me, even if it's 1 pm, or 3 pm. Which is pretty nice.  how did u get the gig? did you even think it would last this long? I don't think anybody could have guessed that the TV show would last so long. We're just finishing our 46th year. That's a LONG run. And I'm so glad we've still go the run going! 

I was doing a show, at a puppet festival, and Jim Henson was scouting for someone to play Big Bird and Oscar, and I was right there. He decided I could do what he wanted me to do, and I got the job! Does sesame street write all the music for their guests? Some of them are really good.  Sometimes, if there are singer guests, they will come and sing a song that we know that they've done, and we'll have them do their song. But usually all the songs that WE sing are original.  Hey Oscar, why are you such a grouch? Well, it's my trade.

I'm a Grouch by trade.

I was just born that way, I guess.

Like my grumpy uncle.  I do have a cousin who's not the same as the rest of us. He's not grouchy.

His name is "Smiling George."

But we can't *all* be perfect! /u/chooter please say he said this in Oscar's voice,because that's how I read it.  He did!!!!! 

It was wonderful. Were you a fan of the work of Frank Oz and the Yoda character? Are you a star wars fan?  Frank Oz is an *incredible* puppeteer. Sometimes he'll put on the puppet, say one or two lines, and then you're on the floor. He's such a serious man, that sometimes he'll put on the puppet, and it's just magic!

He can think of so many funny things to say.  Your [version](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lrZyMptC2eQ) of Bein' Green at Jim Henson's memorial was one of the most touching bits of video I have ever seen.  It was a wonderful tribute to a wonderful man/artist.  What was going through your mind right before and after that very emotional performance?  It must be one of the hardest professional things you have done?  It was so beautiful. I knew this would be here and I'm kind of glad he didn't answer this one.  I could barely handle the onions from the story about the kid in the hospital that he called on the phone... Who was the most memorable guest star?  Well, for me, it was probably Waylon Jennings, because we got to be such good friends. He was a famous country singer. He was hired to play the Turkey Truck Driver in FOLLOW THAT BIRD, when I tried to hitchhike back to Sesame Street. And I spent 2 days in that truck with Waylon. And after that, I said "You have to come do Sesame Street and sing a song!"

And he did, and he wrote a song for him and Oscar to sing, and that song was called "Wrong."

Oscar loves to say you're *WRONG,* but usually he says "Ding-dong, you're WRONG."

And with this, he had his own song! I've loved watching you over the years on Sesame Street. Thank you for making the world a better place for children and adults. I've got two questions
1- I wonder, how have Oscar and Big Bird and your other characters changed you for the better and improved your life?
2- In your opinion, what are the most important qualities of a puppeteer? Good questions but difficult.

*Eeet ees deefeecult!*

Well, I think nobody has a job they *truly* love doing. And that's one reason why people say "how come you want to stay with the show so long?" 

Well, I can't imagine a job that's so enjoyable. That I truly *love.*

And so I think that's changed me into a very happy person.

Well, it doesn't matter if you're shy, because most puppetry is done while you're hiding.

If you're shy, you can still be a puppeteer. So you can speak up, because nobody's looking at you, they're looking at the puppet.

I think it's a good idea to have a good sense of humor. And to learn how to do it, I'd practice in front of a mirror. To see if the puppet looks alive, and doing what you want him to appear like - or a monitor - years ago, I set up my first tv camera I bought, back in the late 70's, and they gave you little cords to connect it to a TV set, so I could see what I was doing with the puppet sitting with the camera and feeding it to my TV, so I could study the way he looked from the audience's point of view.  What's the worst part of your job? Once in a while, my hand has fallen asleep.

The worst part is waiting. And the *loooong* drive. It's my own fault for moving down here, only because I'm a country boy and I have a lovely country place that I bought for $40 an acre. It didn't sell very well, because a farmer would starve on it - it's all rock, every time you try to dig to plant something, there's a rock. And it's 150 miles from anywhere - commuting for 45 years! I don't come down every day, I come down, spend a week, and then drive home. I don't know what I'd do if I had to come each day, because it's almost 3 hours each way.  [The Grouch Anthem](https://youtu.be/q8IHMctrKCg) is probably the best thing ever and what separates Sesame Street's humor from more watered-down kids' shows. I sing it all the time. Did you enjoy performing it? 

The song highlights just how sarcastic Oscar is. Were there ever discussions on just what is the appropriate amount of sarcasm to include in a children's program? Did you ever get complaints about the song?  Dear Mr. Spinney,
You probably don't remember me, but I remember you very well. It was 2012 at New York Comic Con. My brother and I had come across a booth that you were sharing with a few others that performed on children's television (Mr.McFeely, the voice of Gary Gnuu, the voice of Bear in the Big Blue house). You were all packing up the booth and leaving for your "Childhood Memories" panel. My brother and I wanted an autograph from you so badly, but unfortunately you guys didn't have time. However, your group kindly invited us along to your panel with you. We walked next to you and you smiled and us and spoke with Big Bird's voice. That moment was probably the happiest experience in my entire life.
The panel was fantastic, but meeting you was the greatest treasure. 
From the bottom of my heart, thank you for giving me that moment of happiness. Bird Bird was the first stuffed animal I ever had, so meeting you meant a ton to me. 
Keep doing what you do. You inspire children and those who are still young at heart. Does the costume smell bad on the inside? No. I don't sweat much. Even when I did sweat, it didn't get on the suit to make it smell bad. I don't sweat as in "You should take a shower RIGHT NOW!" - Big Bird is very open, and the shoulder things that hold it up are the only things that really touch me.  How did the issues with Kevin Clash impact the show and the staff? Hi, Mister Spinney!!
I'm in my 30's and I've only recently gotten into puppet building (last year). I absolutely LOVE doing this, but I'm afraid I might not be realistic about whether I might be too old to be getting into this business? Here are some links to the puppets I've made recently - is what I've done so far a good place to start?

[Here are my puppets!](http://imgur.com/a/ccjRv) Pssst, from one aspiring 30something puppeteer to another ([here are mine](http://i.imgur.com/3noyFke.jpg)) - nice work! And from what I've learned, it is a TOUGH business to make into a success... but maybe I just didn't try long enough! Wait, Big Bird is a puppet?


I don't know what's real anymore. Joe Raposo was a huge part of the fabric of the Muppets.  What was working with him like?   Who is your favorite character on sesame street?  I guess Big Bird, hahaha!

I'm biased.  Hi Caroll! My alma mater, the University of Connecticut, has the country's only Master of Puppet Arts program. Do you feel like puppet arts are underserved or underappreciated by academics and critics, given that other dramatic arts have 1000s of performance and scholarship programs across the country? 

Or is this good for the art of puppetry? Hi, Caroll, thanks for doing this AMA. 

When you first started on Seasame Street, did you think it would have such an enduring legacy? When I watched the trailer for "I am Big Bird" I literally was a weepy, sobby mess. I'm almost 43 years old. I have no shame in saying that Big Bird was, quite likely, my very first best friend. I had a Big Bird doll that I would take with me everywhere and he'd dance and walk alongside me and I wore out his feet. My parents had to get me a new one, since I loved the first one threadbare. 

I'm so glad that Sesame Street is still on the air and it absolutely tickles me pink that YOU are still part of it, as well. That when I see Big Bird and feel my inner child (who is very much alive and well) light up that it's actually "my" Big Bird that I'm seeing. 

Do you encounter a lot of adults when you're dressed as Big Bird that just break down into emotional messes when they get to meet you? Is that a lot for you to deal with? Knowing just how important that character is to so many people?! Do you do traveling appearances? I'd love the opportunity to embarrass myself by giving you a too long hug.  Carroll!! Oh my goodness, I don't know if you will remember me but I almost jumped out of my chair when I saw your AMA pop up on my Reddit AMA app on my phone.

Twenty one years ago I met you in a tiny town called Kinsale in Co. Cork in Ireland. I was ten and it was in a little restaurant on Main Street called 'The Little Skillet'  (which has since closed, after four years of being out of the country (total of twelve) I actually went back to Kinsale last week!) and I remember my parents somehow getting talking to you and your wife. I was the little girl with blonde curly hair sitting completely absorbed in my Gameboy however I do remember you and your wife being so so lovely. I think my parents were even more thrilled (forgive my childish ignorance and obsession for the Gameboy back then!) to meet you. You even came over to our house for dinner and you were just so wonderful! It did actually mean so much to me to meet you as of course I grew up loving Sesame Street and especially the characters that you portrayed.

I am so excited to see you on here and I would love (as I am sure my parents would) to somehow be in contact again if at all possible although no pressure as I am sure you still by the sounds of it maintain a busy life. =) I still remember the wonderful Christmas cards you would send with the fantastic drawings and keeping the photo's that you gave me of Big Bird and Oscar The Grouch which you signed and I still have.

For a question, did you have to mentally prepare yourself to become these characters on a daily basis? I am sure after so many years that would have become different. I am sure it was enjoyable but were there any times that you struggled or  would you even any good advice regarding this kind of acting method that you could provide to those perhaps wishing to pursue the same career. Basically was there a particular mental process or preparation that you maintained over the years?

So lovely to see you on here, a really wonderful memory from my childhood. All the very best Carroll, I am thrilled to hear about your documentary and I will be watching it.

Edit: Errors/additional information Hi Caroll! I have a simple question for you: any fond memories of Acton, MA? I grew up there and went to elementary school in the building that would have been your high school (if I have my local history right). Thanks for the AMA! Acton, Massachusetts: Home of Big Bird, Steve Carell, and...that's about it. Loved growing up there though  As a middle-class child of the 80s, I grew up watching Sesame Street but I never understood the significance of the street itself. Now I live in the city--next door are low-income blocks where underprivileged children play next door to dangerous places. I imagine how Sesame Street would be relatable and teach them that they are important and capable of learning and friendship. Have you ever been told by an inner-city child that you changed their lives for the better? Did you realize that, as a star of the show, you were having a tremendous impact on underprivileged inner city kids? You are an amazing, amazing person.

And also hello.

I nearly flipped out when I read this.  I am 20 years old, and you have been my hero for at least 18 of them.  If I never got a chance to talk to you again, I wanted to let you know in any way I could that I really admire you and wish I could meet you in person.  Big Bird is my absolute favorite character on Sesame Street (which I still watch regularly) and you are part of the reason I want to work on Sesame Street when I am out of school.  To be a puppeteer is my dream (the full-body muppets you do especially), but just to be able to talk to one would make me very happy.

Please please please please please please please don't stop being Big Bird for a very long time.

Question: What is Sesame Street's schedule?  Do you do it in the fall and wrap in spring?  Do you start in the morning and end at evening, filming different pieces of shows, or is it more like half-a-day work?  How do you get to work for Sesame Street?  And are schedules more loose, depending on the puppeteer, or strict?

Thank you.  Please give Big Bird my love. Was there a particular moment when you realized how influential the Sesame Street characters have been in people's childhoods? And any favourite memories from on set? 

Also, not a question, but the first Halloween where I was actually old enough to like..speak, and choose who to dress up as, I chose Oscar the Grouch. So just..thank you for everything!) Do you miss Mr. Hooper as much as I do? Thank you. That's all I wanted to say, but I have to ask a question so what was an older favorite song of yours? What was Jim Henson's creative process like when contributing to songs? Hi there, Caroll! We met a few years ago in Champaign, Illinois when you and Oscar gave an incredible lecture. It was such an honor to meet you! I just wanted to say thank you again to both you and Deb for being so incredibly nice to me. Also a huge, huge thanks for making my 25 years of life so much richer because Big Bird and Oscar were in those years.

And if I have to ask a question... What is your favorite memory of Jerry Nelson? There was a lot of running around in "Follow That Bird."  Did you need any extra assistance during that movie to play Big Bird? Do you believe that NSA has done massive pre-computation of common groups to passively break Diffie-Hellman exchanges in protocols (TLS, SSH, IPsec) as posited in the recent paper [Imperfect Forward Secrecy:
How Diffie-Hellman Fails in Practice](https://weakdh.org/imperfect-forward-secrecy.pdf)? So this attack was published just yesterday, I believe. I had a private talk recently with several of the best cryptographers and computer security researchers in the US at Princeton, including some of the authors of the paper. I've spoken with some of them in the wake of this publication, and the general consensus was that they would be amazed if the NSA was *not* doing this, and in fact a close reading of some of the previously published NSA documents on efforts against VPN connections implies a similar effort. All I can say is that I share their suspicions, but I simply do not know the answer one way or another. I don't want to mislead anybody by speculating.

Given that the attack you cite, which can just as easily be performed by any government from Belgium to China is a product of previous efforts by the US Government to weaken encryption standards, members of Congress should be writing letters to the Director of National Intelligence to find out why the NSA failed to close a vulnerability that left huge percentages of American (and international) internet traffic at risk.

 The only logical answer to the question of why didn't they close the vulnerability is that they're using it for their own gain. I would be SHOCKED if the NSA or other government agencies weren't using this exploit. The Intercept recently revealed that the NSA is able to use computer algorithms to transcribe phone conversations into written text. In legal terms, does the NSA treat the transcribed phone conversation as metadata or do they treat it as content? 

Source: https://firstlook.org/theintercept/2015/05/11/speech-recognition-nsa-best-kept-secret/ Phone conversations are quintessentially content data. Merely transcribing them would not change their categorical property. The courts use the analogy of a letter in the mail. The shipping information listed externally, they consider metadata, and liken that to your IP address, email address, etc. You don't have a reasonable expectation of privacy for that information. Which is the Fourth Amendment privacy standard that determines whether or not the state needs a warrant to collect that information. However, the letter itself is content data. Whether it is in written words or you take a picture of it, it is still content data. The form or medium doesn't matter. What matters is whether or not the courts have determined you have a reasonable expectation of privacy for it. 

One of the problems with the internet surveillance programs is that there is no reasonable expectation of privacy for anything that crosses into the U.S.A. There has never been a search overturned at the border. It is considered fundamental to a state's sovereignty to control its border. However, internet information doesn't think about borders, and will fly around the world a dozen times without your knowledge. Any and all of that information can be collected without a warrant. The problem is the courts are still thinking about these issues using antiquated analogies. Our phones are becoming the most intimate objects we own, and they don't operate via USPS. We need to modernize our privacy laws to give our digital traffic higher expectations of privacy.  I can't answer this one, but I guarantee Senator Ron Wyden can. I would encourage you to call his office or - better - arrange a field trip to visit in person. It's an important one. It seems like it would be weird to meet with a senator from a state you don't reside.  Unfortunately, this is a consequence of limiting meaningful knowledge of surveillance programs to the members of the House and Senate Intelligence Oversight Committees (Wyden is the closest we have to a "good guy" on the Senate committee).  Would senators (in this case, Wyden - as he's my senator here in Oregon) just sit down and meet w/ random people if they said, "Hey, Ed Snowden told me that I could sit down and chat with you about some stuff. Let's grab a beer?"

Ed, I'll tell him you sent me if I am able to pull it off. Wydens my senator too. Genuine question: do we have an opportunity as his constituents to do anything meaningful other redditors reading this thread dont have? 

I assume in his office has shown him or will show him this comment by Snowden

EDIT: spelling mistakes is there any hope for you to lead a normal life after this or will this always be your sacrifice to the world? He'd need a federal pardon, which no politician would give him for fear of being considered "unamerican".

Ironically, what he did is probably about the most american thing one can do. I have a feeling Rand would! Bernie Sanders probably would too Fuck. Did anyone ask him during his AMA? 

Edit: I found [this](http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2014/01/06/snowden-clemency-sanders-nsa/4344467/) 

&gt;"The information disclosed by Edward Snowden has been extremely important in allowing Congress and the American people to understand the degree to which the NSA has abused its authority and violated our constitutional rights," Sanders said in a statement. "On the other hand, **there is no debate that Mr. Snowden violated an oath and committed a crime.**"

 &gt; "In my view," Sanders continued, "**the interests of justice would be best served if our government granted him some form of clemency or a plea agreement that would spare him a long prison sentence or permanent exile from the country whose freedoms he cared enough about to risk his own freedom.**"

&gt;Sanders' call for leniency for Snowden, who is in exile in Russia, follows editorials in the New York Times and elsewhere saying Snowden deserves clemency for breaking the law by disclosing the scope and extent of government snooping. 

&gt;On Sunday, **Republican Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky, a possible 2016 presidential contender, said Snowden doesn't deserve the death penalty or life in prison.** Those are highly dissimilar positions, even in their vagueness. They most likely treat it as "whatyagonnadoaboutit".

But seriously, I'm pretty sure that even the NSA considers that content. &gt; The Intercept recently revealed that the NSA is able to use computer algorithms to transcribe phone conversations into written text.

They're relying on voice recognition? Prepare to be locked away for a lifetime based on the transcript from a computer that can't tell the difference between "foreign voices, for invoices, or 4 envoys".   real eyes realize real lies I SAID IM A TERRIERIST Can someone explain what exactly the difference between metadata and content is and why it is important how they treat it? Metadata in this context would be:

* When the phonecall is made

* Who made it and to who

* What were the location of both parties
* duration of call

the content would be the actual conversation. Metadata is, put shortly, data about data. What're your thoughts on Rand Paul's filibuster against the renewal of the Patriot Act? It represents a sea change from a few years ago, when intrusive new surveillance laws were passed without any kind of meaningful opposition or debate. Whatever you think about Rand Paul or his politics, it's important to remember that when he took the floor to say "No" to any length of reauthorization of the Patriot Act, he was speaking for the majority of Americans -- [more than 60% of whom ](http://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2015/may/18/us-voters-broadly-opposed-nsa-surveillance)want to see this kind of mass surveillance reformed or ended.

He was joined by several other senators who disagree with the Senate Majority leader's efforts to sneak through a reauthorization of what courts just weeks ago declared was a comprehensively unlawful program, and if you notice that yours did not take to the floor with him, you should call them *right now* (1-920-END-4-215) and ask them to vote against any extension of the Patriot Act, because the final vote is being forced during the dark of a holiday weekend to shield them from criticism.
 There comes a time in the history of nations when fear and complacency allow power to accumulate and liberty and privacy to suffer, that time is now, and I will not let the Patriot Act, the most unpatriotic of acts, go unchallenged. ~ Rand Paul 5.20.15 I don't know his politics at all, but listening to that yesterday make my sit up straighter in my seat and listen harder. Unfortunately probably not on reddit (a huge post on /r/politics talking about Rand Paul filibustering was suspiciously taken down). When your pissing the mainstream off, /r/politics included, you're probably doing something right. I appreciate the time and thought of your answer, Mr Snowden!

edit:  Sen. Paul's actually from my state-- and having done some volunteer campaign work for him during my collegiate years, I was excited to see his stance. If Paul is your Senator, then Mitch McConnell is also from your state. He's the one spearheading the effort to reauthorize the same mass surveillance program the [Second Circuit](https://www.aclu.org/blog/speak-freely/why-todays-landmark-court-victory-against-mass-surveillance-matters) just ruled is unlawful.

Don't send an email, make his phone ring. (ACLU tells me you can get your senator from any phone via 1-920-END-4-215)  I just took some action and called the offices of all my senetors. Felt good! They make it easy also, just hit star to get the next senetor :-) easy peasy.  What should I do if my senator is Wyden? I shared [this](https://www.facebook.com/aclu.nationwide/photos/a.74134381812.86554.18982436812/10152748572081813/?type=1&amp;permPage=1) but feel adequate. You can also call your senators via https://www.aclu.org/feature/end-government-mass-surveillance

 should i send them memes Dank ones. And hurry. The world needs you. I honestly really didn't know much about the Patriot Act when it was first passed, and didn't do much. But, nowadays, post-Snowden, I am remembering that this fight started with the people and movement behind the faltered push to end the Patriot Act. These last few days actually gives us a chance to do just that. We have to spread the word! No questions, just wanted to thank you for what you did. It's certainly encouraging to see that Paul and others - from both parties - obviously consider it a politically "safe" move. This implies that there is enough of a base of civil libertarians that will support principled action to outweigh the inevitable spittle-flecked rage from other circles that might otherwise hurt Presidential campaigns, Senate re-elections and so on.

Of course, the question of the Patriot Act in 2015 seems to be something that divides elite opinion, unlike invading Iraq in 2003. I remember Noam Chomsky talking about how reform is typically only possible when the powerful are divided on something. When they present a united front, it's extremely difficult to change policy, but when you have different factions fighting, then reformers can move up and make change in some way, big or small. Vietnam at the beginning of the war vs Vietnam near the end is one example. Hopefully this is happening now - do you think that American elites are divided on this question? &gt; It's certainly encouraging to see that Paul and others - from both parties - obviously consider it a politically "safe" move.

That's what I like about Paul. He would be doing it even if it weren't a "politically safe" move. He's taken some unpopular stances before, but he's remained pretty ideologically consistent. Keep it up Ed! We haven't forgotten about you Totally agree with Ed (including with his call to action).  Paul's filibuster is a reflection of discontent both within Congress and across the country with NSA overreach. He's by no means alone - he was joined on the floor by both Democrats and Republicans, and that bipartisanship is reflected in the public, where polls are finding wide support across the political spectrum for major reform. In light of that, Mitch McConnell's push for a straight reauthorization is just out of touch.  All, take action by calling your senators. Here's a click to call link: https://www.aclu.org/feature/end-government-mass-surveillance

 Sorry, I just had to ask, but, Mr. Snowden, during the interview with John Oliver, was that really a picture of his junk in that folder? [(   )](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glomar_response) You just went full Reddit This must be the first time you're in a Snowden AMA. I believe he's ended Reddit quite a few times before. [Exhibit A](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wwdep/we_are_edward_snowden_laura_poitras_and_glenn/cout6rb?context=3) and [Exhibit B](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wwdep/we_are_edward_snowden_laura_poitras_and_glenn/coutdwm?context=4) This is amazing. http://i.imgur.com/ycwFTdU.png This has convinced me that he has spend more time on reddit, which makes you wonder, what was his username before?  /u/Unidan Here's the thing You said Edward snowdan is unidan... Here's the thing. You said a "Edward Snowden is Unidan."
Are they both redditors? Yes. No one's arguing that.
As someone who is a memologist who studies  Unidan alt accounts, I am telling you, specifically, on the Internet, no one calls Snowden 'Unidan'. If you want to be "specific" like you said, then you shouldn't either. They're not the same guy.
If you're saying "Unidan family" you're referring to the reddit grouping of Alt Accounts, which includes things from /u/unidanxxx to /u/totallynotunidan to /u/votes_for_unidan.
So your reasoning for calling a Snowden Unidan is because random people "call the popular accounts Unidan?" Let's get /u/karmanaut and /u/_vargas_ in there, then, too.
Also, calling advice mallard an advice animal or a meme? It's not one or the other, that's not how memology works. They're both. Edward Snowden is Edward Snowden and a member of the Snowden family. But that's not what you said. You said Snowden is Unidan, which is not true unless you're okay with calling all popular redditors alt accounts of Unidan, which means you'd call /u/stickleyman, /u/EditingandLayout, and other and other redditors Unidan, too. Which you said you don't.
It's okay to just admit you're wrong, you know? also Snowden may very probably be /u/only_lurks

(check the comment history) &gt; he's ended Reddit

I believe we may have just unearthed a conspiracy to take down Reddit, guys. /u/breathethisair is conspiring with Snowden and Unidan to "end" Reddit! Here is the Radiolab episode on the Glomar response. [(   )](http://www.radiolab.org/story/confirm-nor-deny/) I thought it was pretty interesting. I've heard that! I love Radiolab, and that episode was pretty awesome. lol you are priceless Ed Snowden, great American hero and active redditor. The dude even made a jackdaw joke. 

You've been to gonewild, haven't you, Ed? Probably gave Greenwald list of who's visited that sub. Fuckin NSA.  [Apparently so.](http://i.imgur.com/s4ACncz.png) More like Greenwild.  For reference, here's the John Oliver interview with Snowden: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XEVlyP4_11M The uploader has not made this video public in your country. 

Lol from the UK. Oliver's recently said that he is more American than British at this point. &gt; He's more machine now, than man. Twisted and evil. Same situation, had to [proxy it](https://www.proxfree.com/youtube-proxy.php) (set server to US). That's classified We know, that's why we're asking Snowden.  Shut up Eugene Woo my first AMA question..

Whats your opinion about the UK government giving GCHQ spies immunity from anti-hacking laws and does that make them worse than the NSA? I think it's revealing that the UK government has chosen to change the law without any debate or public declaration. It's a clear red flag. Yes, I'm truly worried about this government we just voted in. I dread to think what Britain will be like in 5 years. A few days ago a group of researchers published what's being called the 'logjam attack' (https://weakdh.org/) and seem to think that it fits the description of some of the capabilities described in some of the NSA slides you released. Does it seem plausible to you that this was in fact a vulnerability that was being exploited by the NSA? For those of us who have not yet heard about this:

&gt;Tens of thousands of HTTPS-protected websites, mail servers, and other widely used Internet services are vulnerable to a new attack that lets eavesdroppers read and modify data passing through encrypted connections, a team of computer scientists has found.

&gt;The vulnerability affects an estimated 8.4 percent of the top one million websites and a slightly bigger percentage of mail servers populating the IPv4 address space, the researchers said. The threat stems from a flaw in the transport layer security protocol that websites and mail servers use to establish encrypted connections with end users. The new attack, which its creators have dubbed Logjam, can be exploited against a subset of servers that support the widely used Diffie-Hellman key exchange, which allows two parties that have never met before to negotiate a secret key even though they're communicating over an unsecured, public channel.

&gt;The weakness is the result of export restrictions the US government mandated in the 1990s on US developers who wanted their software to be used abroad. The regime was established by the Clinton administration so the FBI and other agencies could break the encryption used by foreign entities. Attackers with the ability to monitor the connection between an end user and a Diffie-Hellman-enabled server that supports the export cipher can inject a special payload into the traffic that downgrades encrypted connections to use extremely weak 512-bit key material. Using precomputed data prepared ahead of time, the attackers can then deduce the encryption key negotiated between the two parties.

Scource: http://arstechnica.com/security/2015/05/https-crippling-attack-threatens-tens-of-thousands-of-web-and-mail-servers/ DH is also used by routers to negotiate VPNs. That gives them access to any and all information that passes through the tunnel. Well, I think I'm just going to stop using the internet... For reference, Edward Snowden addresses this in a post below:

https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/36ru89/just_days_left_to_kill_mass_surveillance_under/crglw51

EDIT: Replied to a post by Noah Swartz and that got a reply by Edward Snowden, this made my day. (Note: Front page bonus round!)

Thank you for linking up my replies. I wish I could help more, because this vulnerability represents the central folly of government interference in cryptographic standards. For those who are not familiar with it, this vulnerability exists in most browsers and server packages only because the US Government regulations meant "weak cryptography" fallbacks were mandated in 90s-era software exports... the problem is today, those fallbacks still exist, **and even domestic US communications can be tricked into "falling back" to them**. Basically, due some truly brilliant researchers published a paper yesterday proving you modern smartphones or laptops can be tricked into using awful paper-thin crypto mandated as a result of long-dead policies from the 90s. This constitutes a central threat to the security of the internet that is so central to our economy, but few journalists and politicians have a meaningful understanding of cryptography or its implications.

Unfortunately, even to people work directly with mass surveillance tools like XKEYSCORE, the details and capabilities of NSA's CES (Cryptographic Exploitation Service) office are a black box. The way it worked for someone like me, who analyses computer-to-computer communications (rather than the legacy phone networks) for NSA, is that you'd basically query your way through the rolling buffer of the previous days' internet traffic -- the de rigeur -- until you find something that is relevant to your actors (the people/groups you're targeting) that is clearly enciphered but (based on a review of the data flow and knowledge of the target's pattern of life) doesn't look it would be a low-value waste of time (like an encrypted video streaming site) to decrypt.

You then flag those comms and task them to CES for processing. If they've got a capability against it *and consider your target is worth using it against*, they'll return the plaintext decrypt. They might even set up a processor to automate decryption for that data flow going forward as matching traffic gets ingested as they pass the mass surveillance sensors out at the telecom companies and landing sites. If you don't meet CES's justifications for the capability use or they lack a capability, you get nothing back. In my experience NSA rarely uses meaningful decryption capabilities against terrorists, firstly because most of those who actually work in intelligence consider terrorism to be a nuisance rather than a national security threat, and secondly because terrorists are so fantastically inept that they can be countered through far less costly means.

The down side of this is most analysts who aren't already technically high speed (and the average NSA analyst is an unimpressive uniform who learned to paint by numbers in a government class, but knows how to punch the buttons, although there are also people who are almost impossibly talented) just stop bothering to request decrypts on anything that they don't know from rumor or personal experience there is a capability against, because they figure it's not worth the effort of writing an email. On the plus side, it's great opsec.

I try not to speculate on this topic, because a bad answer can be worse than no answer,  so I have to limit my replies to things that I both have personal knowledge of and journalists have done a public-interest review of.

To summarize the linked response: I don't know, and none of our representatives in Congress have been willing to tell us. What I can say is that some of the finest minds in cryptography find it unbelievable that NSA did not have knowledge of this weakness. The fact that they did not publicly disclose it is concerning in either case: 

* If they knew about it and did exploited the vulnerability rather than publicly disclosing it, they placed critical US (and international) infrastructure at risk for over a decade, which has certainly been exploited by the adversaries of any sophistication.

* If they did not know about it, but a team of academics with no access to nation state resources could both find the vulnerability and prove that it works, it's incompetent to the point of negligence.
 I notice that there's no point in the process you describe above where anyone asks a judge for permission to wiretap the subject, based on probable cause to believe a crime has been committed, as the fourth amendment clearly requires. Almost all surveillance taking place through XKEYSCORE-related systems is based on FAA702 or EO12333 -- both are warrantless authorities as the NSA uses them. Warrant-based FAA702 collection is normally via FBI, not NSA.  &gt; both are warrantless authorities 

I think it's worth pointing out here, that despite the government's wishes to the contrary, the constitution is the *entirety of its legal basis for existing*, and it is binding upon all US government employees, at all times, in all places.  

Any statute or regulation that purports to exempt any person from the fourth amendment's requirements for issuing a warrant is illegal on its face. The thing is it's supposed to be used to collect information on foreign targets, and there are no fourth amendment protections for that. In reality, they're also feeding data on all Americans into the system and using flimsy excuses to spy on them, too.

But yes, you can (and must) have procedures for military/national security organizations to spy on foreign targets. You can't expect the the fourth amendment to apply to the CIA when bugging the Soviet embassy during the Cold War.

Using those same systems arbitrarily against Americans, though, is a completely different story. 

&gt;In my experience NSA rarely uses meaningful decryption capabilities against terrorists, firstly because most of those who actually work in intelligence consider terrorism to be a nuisance rather than a national security threat, and secondly because terrorists are so fantastically inept that they can be countered through far less costly means.

I find this bit very interesting, as lots of people are defending the NSA's capabilities in the interest of security against terrorists. Could you shed some light on what the average *actual* target of an NSA investigation is? Is this the high placed official (a la Angela Merkel) whom they want politically advantageous information from, the company leader (a la Mark Zuckerberg) whom they want to influence, or is it just other criminals not falling into the 'terrorism' category? 

Thanks for doing this AMA. What you are doing might even be more important to us Europeans than it is to Americans.  Probably China, Russia and their allies. You know, people with force projection capabilities, not people living in caves. This is my biggest question too. Logjam invariably requires us to shift the discussion to removing obstacles to strong encryption everywhere as the only defense against surveillance.

ps. It's a pleasure to see you here, Noah. I just wish Aaron was still here in the fight with us. We need more heroes like him and Ed. Even if section 215 is not renewed, do you believe that the NSA/ US government will still accomplish phone surveillance without approval and in secret? There are always reasons to be concerned that regardless of the laws passed, some agencies in government (FBI, NSA, CIA, and DEA, for example, have flouted laws in the past) will miscontrue the intent of Congress in passing limiting laws -- or simply disregard them totally.  For example, the DOJ's internal watchdog, the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) released a report claiming, among other abuses, that it could simply refuse to tell government oversight bodies [what exactly it was doing] (https://pbs.twimg.com/media/CFiZiCAUgAAFTTb.png:large), so the legality or illegality of their operations simply couldn't be questioned at all.

However, that's no excuse for the public or Congress to turn a blind eye to unlawful or immoral operations -- and the kind of mass surveillance happening under Section 215 of the Patriot Act right now is very much unlawful: the Courts ruled just two weeks ago that not only are these activities illegal, but they have been since the day the programs began.  No question, just wanted to thank you, Mr. Snowden. Thank you for your service to this country and the world. I'm about the same age as you and you're the closest thing our generation has to a hero.
 I second this sentiment. You are THE hero of our generation! Your courage, selflessness, and conscience are admirable. Thank you for being a true champion of liberty.  Adding my 2 cents in so I have a chance to directly thank Mr. Snowden for his decision and actions. Thank you, Edward. Imagine that: a hero with no super powers, no infinite funds, no super special training. The only thing our hero has is character and honesty. I find that to be a much better example to set for the children of today and tomorrow than superman or batman. Where they are unobtainable fantasies anyone could be our real life hero by just doing what we all know is right. 

Godspeed Mr. Snowden. I hope you get pardoned eventually so you can see your family and friends once more.  Second that, thank you Mr. Snowden. Thank you for everything you've done, Mr. Snowden. The entire world owes you a debt of gratitude.  My friend works for the gvt and whenever I try to have a conversations with her about 215 / patriot act. Their reply is always, "if you knew what we knew on the inside you'd know it was different" then when I try to present her with documents you've released, she informs me that she can't view them, because even though they are "public" now, they can get in trouble because they are still classified if they read them. What would be your approach to talking with them about the dangers of mass data collection and how do you feel that people who work in the gvt agencies can't read up on the leaks without being fearful of their job?

edit b/c i'm actually scared of the gvt and flying tmw and don't want to be put on a list for asking snowden a question Two official review groups--the PCLOB and the PRG--looked at classified information and concluded that the call-records program was ineffective.  On your other point, I think it's absurd that government employees are barred from reading things that everyone else can read.   Jameel is right, but I think the central issue is to point out that regardless of the results, the ends (preventing a crime) do not justify the means (violating the rights of the millions whose private records are unconstitutionally seized and analyzed).

Some might say "I don't care if they violate my privacy; I've got nothing to hide." Help them understand that they are misunderstanding the fundamental nature of human rights. Nobody needs to justify why they "need" a right: the burden of justification falls on the one seeking to infringe upon the right. But even if they did, you can't give away the rights of others because they're not useful to you. More simply, the majority cannot vote away the natural rights of the minority.

But even if they could, help them think for a moment about what they're saying. Arguing that you don't care about the right to privacy because you have nothing to hide is no different than saying you don't care about free speech because you have nothing to say.

A free press benefits more than just those who read the paper. &gt; Arguing that you don't care about the right to privacy because you have nothing to hide is no different than saying you don't care about free speech because you have nothing to say.  
  
This is the best way I've heard this phrased so far. I've tried to get my SO to understand the dangers of mass surveillance and she always responds with the whole "I've got nothing to hide". Hopefully this will get through a little better... &gt; "I've got nothing to hide"

Tell your SO that means she should publish all her communications on a public facebook profile. She has nothing to hide right? If her privacy is of no concern because she's got nothing to hide, then I'm sure she wouldn't mind 24/7 video surveillance in her bathroom/shower to help keep her safe. This would of course be monitored by an outside company, which wouldn't inconvenience your SO in the slightest as she values the feeling of 'protection'. Try this as well:

If someone ruins your life because of something you didn't think you had to hide, *it won't matter that you didn't think you had to hide it.* You should watch Glenn Greenwald's TED talk called 'Why Privacy Matters' and have her watch it too. He covers this whole topic and debate point quite well. On mobile so I'll find the link in a little on ted.com. It's a good analogy until you think about it:

&amp;nbsp;

Free speech should be protected because:

-Someday you will have something to say.

-You might not have anything to say, but others do.

&amp;nbsp;

Privacy should be protected because:

-Someday you will have something to hide.

-You don't have anything to hide but some people do.

&amp;nbsp;

For the record I think Snowden is goddamn America Hero, just wish there was a simple phrase to break the issue down for people. &gt; Nobody needs to justify why they "need" a right: the burden of justification falls on the one seeking to infringe upon the right.

This right here is everything. Thank you. What I hate about the 'I've got nothing to hide' argument is that its so selfish. Just because you're willing to throw away your right doesn't mean I am. I think it's absurd that anyone would actually refrain from reading a newspaper because the government didn't approve of its content. If you feared for your job and ability to take care of your family, you would do stupid things too. Shouldn't your response then be the same as hers? "If you knew what we knew outside, you'd know it was different." She doesn't know what's in those documents that swayed you, and those documents are the argument you're proposing. I have personally reviewed national laws regarding reading Wikileaks information and having it on your computer a few years ago. I know it's illegal to provide excerpts from this documentation if you're not a member of the press. It's not illegal for an American to view this documentation. It's not illegal to download it either. There were no stipulations about government employees because it's technically public information now as it's on the WWW, available to the public to view. after several hours of research I found there are no laws that can stop us from being educated about facts. When our government decides to do that to us, and violate our civil rights again, we should strongly consider overthrowing our government strategically in order to restore our human and civil rights.

I've gotten in trouble for saying it before, but please have them ask for the government to prove that they can't view it. They should be given the laws that apply in full context so what they're saying can be proven as true. The government loves to lie, just like lawyers and corporations... They all use fear to control you, me, everybody. There are government employees that have been fired from local offices just for saying "climate change" at work.  Hi everyone.  I'm Jameel Jaffer from the ACLU.  Looking forward to the questions.  A real honor to be here with Ed Snowden. In your opinion, do you think that a majority of American Citizens care enough that they will call Congress and sign petitions? I think a large issue in America is Political Apathy. Jameel probably has a better answer, but we know from very recent, non-partisan polling that Americans (and everyone else around the world) [care tremendously](http://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2015/may/18/us-voters-broadly-opposed-nsa-surveillance) about mass surveillance. 

The more central question, from my perspective, is "why don't lawmakers seem to care?" After all, the entire reason they are in office in our system is to represent our views. The recent [Princeton Study](http://www.princeton.edu/~mgilens/Gilens%20homepage%20materials/Gilens%20and%20Page/Gilens%20and%20Page%202014-Testing%20Theories%203-7-14.pdf) on politicians' responsiveness to the policy preferences of different sections of society gives some indication of where things might be going wrong:

Out of all groups expressing a policy preference within society, the views of the public at large are given the very least weight, whereas those of economic elites (think bankers, lobbyists, and the people on the Board of Directors at defense contracting companies) exercise more than ten times as much influence on what laws get passed -- and what laws don't.

 It's starting to really feel like some of these folks are taking cues from the House of Bourbon: "They have learned nothing, and forgotten nothing."

America has a pretty stable political system in general, but the last time inequality and political irresponsiveness really got out of control, massive radical movements rose up threatening revolution - some admirable, some less so. Only through the concerted efforts of the New Dealers and an astoundingly good political operator (FDR) could reformist policy settle the country. The people running the surveillance machine today refuse to even countenance basic reform that goes back to the founding principles of the country, and there is no reformer around of FDR's stature this time. Worse, they carry on outrageous behavior and act like they are untouchable. The outcome of the David Betrayus case was enraging. 

What do they think is going to happen? Keep pushing people, and one day they have enough and assign no legitimacy to the status quo. That can only ever lead to great strife. See the latest poll we did here: 60% of Americans want their privacy back. https://www.aclu.org/sites/default/files/field_document/privacy_poll_results.pdf What the fuck is wrong with the other 40%? They're not bad or stupid. They're just like you or me, only they've been repeated presented with misinformation. You surely hold misconceptions of your own, and it's a matter of public record that I have a history of naive trust in the claims of authority. Whether through media, pundits, or intentionally inaccurate statements intended to sway their beliefs, we can be manipulated to believe things that simply aren't true. 

The latter is unfortunately far more accepted in our domestic political culture that it should be. It is [documented by the government itself](http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/independent-review-board-says-nsa-phone-data-program-is-illegal-and-should-end/2014/01/22/4cebd470-83dd-11e3-bbe5-6a2a3141e3a9_story.html) that, for example, mass surveillance occurring under Section 215 of the Patriot Act (the poll is about this kind of thing) has not only never stopped a terrorist attack in the US, but it has never even made a "concrete difference" in even a single terrorism investigation.

Despite that, all week we've had Senators claiming "this program saves lives" or "keeps us safe." It's simply not true, and all of the senators know this: they've got aides to fact check them on these things.

The question is what to do with elected representatives who knowingly lie for political benefit, and how to disincentivize the root behavior.

You can start by letting them know that after a decade of watching us, now you're watching them.
 &gt;They're not bad or stupid. They're just like you or me, only they've been repeated presented with misinformation. You surely hold misconceptions of your own...

More people need to hear this. Thank you for standing for this principle.  Those 40% believe "Congress should preserve the Patriot Act and make no changes because it has been effective in keeping America safe from terrorists and other threats to national security like ISIS or Al Qaeda" in the exact words of the survey in question.

If you are not informed on all the facets of the Patriot Act (as the majority of Americans are), then this does not sound too bad.

If you just look at the name Patriot Act you wouldn't immediately assume it has much to do with **taking away** your privacy. That's great! It's really good to know that fellow Americans also want to protect their privacy. :) Glad you liked it! 

Don't forget to take action, here's how:

Calling your senators: https://www.aclu.org/feature/end-government-mass-surveillance

Signing the petition: https://action.aclu.org/secure/section215

Getting the word out on social media: https://www.facebook.com/aclu.nationwide/photos/a.74134381812.86554.18982436812/10152748572081813/?type=1&amp;permPage=1

Attending a sunset vigil to sunset the Patriot Act: https://www.endsurveillance.com/#protest
 It would be great if I could sign the petition without also signing up for your spam. You may get more signatures that way... does your middle name also start with a j? The J is for Jackdaw. tfw Edward Snowden is a better memer than me One of us, one of us, gooble gobble, gooble gobble [deleted] Every account on Reddit is Snowden except for you. Yes, he's /u/karmanaut.  Verified. Damn, I'm so conflicted. I have so much respect for Snowden. Hey there! Since I don't live in the US, what can we do to help? The first thing is to [correct misinformation whenever you see this topic being debated](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2015/05/senates-excuses-reauthorizing-section-215-and-why-theyre-wrong). For example:

* Supporters of mass surveillance say it keeps us safe. The problem is that that's an allegation, not a fact, and there's no evidence at all to support the claim. In fact, a White House review with unrestricted access to classified information found that not only is [mass surveillance illegal, it has never made a concrete difference in even one terrorism investigation](http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/independent-review-board-says-nsa-phone-data-program-is-illegal-and-should-end/2014/01/22/4cebd470-83dd-11e3-bbe5-6a2a3141e3a9_story.html).

* Some claim the Senate should keep Section 215 of the Patriot Act (which will be voted on in two days) because we need "more time for debate," but even in the US, the public has already decided: 60% oppose reauthorization.  This unconstitutional mass surveillance program was revealed in June 2013 and has been struck down by courts twice since then. If two years and two courts aren't enough to satisfy them, what is?

* A few try to say that Section 215 is legal. [It's not.](http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/05/07/us-usa-security-nsa-idUSKBN0NS1IN20150507) Help them understand.

* The bottom line is we need people everywhere -- in the US, outside the US, and especially within their own communities -- to push back and challenge anybody defending these programs. More than anything, we need to ordinary people to make it clear that a vote in favor of the extension or reauthorization of mass surveillance authorities is a vote in favor of a program that is illegal, ineffective, and illiberal.

 In the spirit of correcting misinformation, a friendly amendment: The court ruled that 215 did not in fact authorize the NSA's program like they claimed it did. Whether or not 215 is legal itself (i.e constitutional) is still an open question as far as the courts are concerned.  Do you ever see yourself living back in the United States one day? I hope so! Me too. The White House has been working on that [petition](https://petitions.whitehouse.gov/petition/pardon-edward-snowden) for a couple years, now, and the courts have finally confirmed that the 2013 revelations revealed unlawful activity on the part of the government. Maybe they'll surprise us. Your lawyer has stated you are willing to return to the US if given a fair trial. How would you define a "fair trial" in this context? Ahhh you replied,  my Idol.  I'll be hoping for you dude. [deleted] This is a totally fair point.  Whatever reform we achieve in Congress over the next few weeks has to be a first step.  We'll press Congress to turn to Section 702 and EO 12333 next.  And of course our challenges in the courts go beyond the call-records program.  See, e.g., Wikimedia v. NSA: https://www.aclu.org/cases/wikimedia-v-nsa-challenge-upstream-surveillance-under-fisa-amendments-act The "incidental" thing always infuriated me. If the police break into your house without a warrant, looking for cocaine, and they happen to stumble upon heroin, *it doesn't matter what they were looking for*. The search was illegal to begin with. Edward Snowden - Should kids be encouraged to pursue careers in cryptography? Yes, but good luck keeping tabs on them as teens.

"Where have you been?"
"Out."
"If you don't tell me, I'll just check your ph-- Oh." I know your response was partially a joke, but seriously speaking, I would much rather trust my kid to be a good kid and tell me the truth than trust the government with all human life on Earth completely open and penetrable to them. Edward: what do you think about the rise of encrypted messaging apps like Threema and Bleep by Bittorrent? Which (if any) would you recommend? 

Also, read any good books lately? Signal for iOS, Redphone/TextSecure for Android. 

I have a special fondness for "Secrets," by Daniel Ellsberg.  Links on Signal/Redphone/Textsecure:

- [Developer website](https://whispersystems.org/)
- [Signal](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/signal-private-messenger/id874139669) for iOS  calling and chatting
- [RedPhone](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.thoughtcrime.redphone) for Android  calling
- [TextSecure](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.thoughtcrime.securesms) for Android  chatting What do you think about Telegram, specifically their non-use of an open encryption protocol?  Telegram chats by default are not using end-to-end encryption. 

Only Secret Chats are. And even if their crypto was solid, which I really doubt, there is an authentication attack at 2^64 which is quite low hanging fruit for the NSA.

http://www.alexrad.me/discourse/a-264-attack-on-telegram-and-why-a-super-villain-doesnt-need-it-to-read-your-telegram-chats.html I know this wasn't your question, but some general rule of thumb about secure messaging apps:

- Don't trust anyone, including (and sometimes especially) the people behind the app. This is the case with BitTorrent. You shouldn't use their products. They have a terrible track record in terms of security and user experience.
- Do not use proprietary software. I'm against proprietary software in general and try to avoid it whenever I can but it's an _awful_ idea to use self-claimed secure tools that aren't open source. This isn't to say proprietary software can't be secure because it definitely can be, but with open source projects you basically trust in the code and the community who's testing the code and not just some guy behind a desk working for a corporation.
- Check whether the app itself and/or its protocols (assuming they're using their own protocol) have been audited for security issues.

That's about it. /u/SuddenlySnowden's suggestions are spot on. (It's almost like he knows what he's talking about.) Open WhisperSystems (Maker of Signal, RedPhone and TextSecure) is one of the shining examples when it comes to building secure messaging apps. The EFFs [secure messaging scorecard](https://www.eff.org/secure-messaging-scorecard) is a good quick overview. Where would you like to work when you are back home? I hear the NSA was looking for a Civil Liberties officer.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZkYLcG5Nmbw Hi folks,

I'd first like to remark on how bizarre the American political situation has gotten when what are essentially Constitutional and conservative principles are so ridiculously controversial in both major political parties. Nothing that the ACLU is doing or that Snowden is saying is radical by any means. It's difficult to imagine a major political figure pre-1960 having political cover to bash ideas like "let's not have a dystopian government surveillance machine running at full speed" like Pete King or Marco Rubio easily can today. I guess this is why "bourgeois democracy" is looked down upon in radical circles.

Anyway, my question is pretty straightforward. I know journalists like Marcy Wheeler and politicians like Justin Amash have came out against the USA Freedom Act for not going far enough. Do you think it's a bad bill and should be left to die (even at the risk of full Patriot Act renewal), a sensible reform on its own that should be supported at the exclusion of other options, or a bill that should be supported but at the same time a total sunset of the Patriot Act should be also pushed for as a better alternative? What's the odds on any of these things coming to fruition? Great questions.  The USA Freedom Act doesnt go far enough.  (At this point the ACLU is neither supporting nor opposing it.)  The bill would allow the government to continue storing innocent peoples records in vast intelligence databases. It would require the government to be more transparent about its use of some surveillance authorities, but it would allow the FBI to keep secret some of the information the public needs most. And while it would end the bulk collection of call records under Section 215, it would leave the government with the authority to engage in the broad collection of other kinds of sensitive records.  All of this said, the USA Freedom Act would at least be a step in the right direction, which is more than can be said for the straight reauthorization being proposed by the Republican leadership in the Senate.   We've been saying for a while now that, unless the bill is strengthened, sunset is the better option. See, e.g., http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/politics/2015/05/patriot_act_s_section_215_should_expire_why_we_should_let_the_law_s_worst.html Thank you all so much for the questions. I wish we had time to get around to all of them. For the people asking "what can we do," the TL;DR is to call your senators for the next two days and tell them to [reject any extension or authorization of 215](https://www.aclu.org/feature/end-government-mass-surveillance). No matter how the law is changed, it'll be the first significant restriction on the Intelligence Community since the 1970s -- but only if you help. Hey Edward, 

I have a few questions for you:

Do you miss pizza?
Favorite thing about Russia so far?
If you could be an insect, which would you be and why? This guy gets it.

Russia has Papa John's. For real. Also, on a scale of 1-10, how irritating is it that your eyeglasses STILL have that broken nosepiece? 

I find it hilarious that we're trying to end this massive coordinated domestic spying effort and we can't even get you a fully-functional pair of glasses.  Am sure Google have plenty of spare pairs they could send him.. Sure, dodge the insect question. Right? That's the one I was really looking forward to.  Found the Unidan alt. [For the record:](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/0/01/Leafcutter_ants_transporting_leaves.jpg/450px-Leafcutter_ants_transporting_leaves.jpg) The guy who wants us to stand up for individual privacy and liberty wants us all to become part of a mindless hivemind! WAKE UP SHEEPLE!  [From the Wikipedia article:](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leafcutter_ant)

&gt;Next to humans, leafcutter ants form the largest and most complex animal societies on Earth.

Do I sense a metaphor for joining together like the leafcutter ant to end section 215 of the Patriot Act? Well played. Are you my English teacher? What are your favorite toppings?
I like Pepperoni, Bacon, and Tomato, but my go-to Papa John's order is Pepperoni and Pineapple with extra sauce.
 Nice try, FBI profiler. Ed, don't pretend like they don't already know. &gt; Russia has Papa John's.

He said *pizza*, not garbage. Shots fired. This comment above any other made me realize that you could be any of us redditors. Can you imagine if snowden's account was all just "ayy lmao" comments That's it for the bonus round. Thank you again for all of the questions, and seriously, if the idea that the government is keeping a running tab of the personal assocations of everyone in the country based on your calling data, please call 1-920-END-4-215 and tell them "no exceptions," you are against any extension -- for any length of time -- of the unlawful Section 215 call records program. They've have two years to debate it and two court decisions declaring it illegal. It's time for reform.

 I want to thank you for the service you've done for everybody on this planet.

You're an inspiration to all of us. Keep doing what you're doing, and hopefully you'll encourage others to have the courage to do the same.

A question, if I may: do you think that this sort of behaviour from politicians is ever going to end? Do you think future younger Senators that actively use technology will be more concerned about mass surveillance practices? [deleted] The NSAs call-records program is only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to dragnet surveillance by the U.S. government. For example, the NSA is copying and searching through vast quantities of internet communications as they transit the internet backbone under a law known as the FISA Amendments Act. The surveillance affects virtually every American who uses the Internet to connect with people overseasand many who do little more than email their friends or family or browse the web. In March 2015, the ACLU sued the NSA on behalf of the Wikimedia Foundation, Human Rights Watch, the Rutherford Institute, and a host of other organizations in order to end this unlawful surveillance. 
Heres a link to the ACLUs challenge to the FISA Amendments Act in Wikimedia v. NSA:

https://www.aclu.org/blog/nsa-has-taken-over-internet-backbone-were-suing-get-it-back?redirect=blog/national-security/nsa-has-taken-over-internet-backbone-were-suing-get-it-back
 Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act conceals some of the worst mass surveillance operations. The Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board considered a few of the (more reasonable) facets of *individually targeted* applications of the FAA 702 authority, because these are the examples the NSA is happy to demonstrate and easy for overseers to review, but they failed to consider the moral, legal, and Constitutional implications of the "upstream" mass ingestion of private communications. In basic terms, the government here prefers to ignore that the 4th Amendment prohibits not just the unwarranted search of private records, but also the initial seizure of them as well. I suspect that's likely to haunt not only them, but all of us as well.

EO 12333 is the other skeleton in the closet, but that is going to be a tougher fight because the White House argues these operations are simply above the law and cannot be regulated by congress or the courts. It's disappointing to see one branch of government seek to excuse itself from accountability to the others in a system founded on the idea of checks and balances, but that's the reality of it. Could you elaborate on EO 12333? For ES: Has the NSA ever used its hacking capacity to kill someone? Are you aware of that, or any attempt to develop that capability at the NSA (e.g. hacking to down a plane, cause car brake failure, etc?) 

To what extent does the NSA use its surveillance capacity on its critics or US political leaders? Are you aware of anything like that?

I'm interested in both what you've seen, and your overall sense of what's likely to be on the table in the next few years. Yo, Ed didn't answer your question and you came here with him, that's cold. Disturbingly, a leaked document did reveal that the NSA had plans to use the pornography viewing habits to discredit and silence some political dissenters:

&gt;[a document from NSA director Keith Alexander that showed the NSA was spying on the pornography-viewing habits of political radicals. The memo suggested that the agency could use these personal vulnerabilities to destroy the reputations of government critics who were not in fact accused of plotting terrorism. The document then went on to list six people as future potential targets.](http://www.wired.com/2014/08/edward-snowden/) What did you think about Americans being more concerned about their dick pics being seen through the NSA more than anything else, in that John Oliver interview?  I really regret that he only mentioned dick picks, and not nude photographs of women as well. I feel like folks would be much more alarmed by that, because it probably happens more often. It's actually a smart example. If you've ever looked at one of the countless stories of women demonstrating how many unsolicited dick pics they get, you know there are countless guys sending dick pics, but unlike women who have to worry about revenge porn sites and the like, guys assume nobody would be looking for their dick pics. In light of the ACLU vs Clapper verdict - stating that bulk collection under 215 is illegal - how do you think citizens should view Congress members who vote to reauthorize 215? In my view, it would be totally indefensible to reauthorize the call-records program at this point.  Two official review groups have said it's ineffective.  The Second Circuit has said it's unlawful.  The NSA has basically said it doesn't need it.  What's the argument for reauthorizing it? Thank you all for your willingness to discuss this subject. It is immensely appreciated.

I have two things I wanted to ask. First, besides Section 215, what other parts of the Patriot Act are detrimental to privacy and should die off as well? Secondly, do you believe the USA Freedom Act goes far enough? If not, what about it should be changed/expanded upon? My colleague Neema Guliani wrote about this at some length here: https://www.aclu.org/blog/washington-markup/its-congress-turn-what-meaningful-surveillance-reform-looks.  But basically wed propose six things: (1) Amend the bill to prevent surveillance of individuals with no nexus to terrorism; (2) Include procedures to ensure the government purges irrelevant information; (3) Make sure the public has a strong advocate in the FISC; (4) Limit additional authorities that have been used to collect Americans' records in bulk; (5) Stop the government from using Section 702 of FISA as a backdoor to conduct surveillance on Americans; and (6) Stop the government from using the "material support" laws against individuals who have no intent to support terrorism. Do you think that other countries like Germany and France are at equal risk of laws like these being written and passed? I'd be very interested in Ed's answer to this question.  But at this point, I think Americans know more about their government's surveillance policies than the French or Germans do about theirs.  Transparency is a huge issue here in the U.S., but my impression is that it's an even bigger issue in France and Germany--in spite of the excellent work of organizations like Privacy International.   France has already passed their own version which sometimes is even worse than the PATRIOT act. [deleted] The government sometimes has good reason to keep secrets.  But often it doesn't--it classifies information gratuitously / automatically, or in order to shield officials from embarrassment or accountability, or to hide activity that's unlawful.  It's unfortunate that neither our laws nor the people who administer them do a good job of distinguishing leaks that are dangerous from leaks that are in the public interest. Welcome back Edward! 

If we've already called our lawmakers, what do you think is the biggest thing an ordinary citizen can do to help stop the renewal of the PATRIOT Act? I was touched to briefly "meet" you (Ed) before your talk at HOPE, where I personally thanked you for everything.

That said, I watched almost all of Rand Paul's filibuster, and while I thought he made some amazing points, I was disappointed that there was almost no media coverage by CNN, Fox News, etc. Is this a problem, and if so, what can we do to change it? Aestetix, I'm a CNN reporter. I write about cybersecurity and privacy, and I regularly cover issues relating to surveillance.

I cover everything I can. Just today, I'm working on two stories. One, about the massive problem with backdoors: http://money.cnn.com/2015/05/21/technology/clinton-law-privacy/index.html?iid=SF_LN

And two, about how Android devices don't actually erase data, so it's unsafe to sell your old phone. (still writing)

If you want more coverage on these issues from CNN, I urge you to write to editors and producers at CNN. The more the decision makers hear directly from the public, the more they'll realize there's appetite for this kind of coverage. thanks for what you do. How can I, as a citizen, contribute to the hindering of these draconian bills?
Will just signing petitions cut the deal? Hello, Mr Snowden!

I was wondering how you responded to rumors that you were actually a spy for the Russians, due to them offering you asylum. Most of that kind of talk has since died down, but many people still wholeheartedly believe it. Where are you getting your spending money from  and what do you do all day? What is an average day like for you in Russia? Was there a single incident that helped you decide, the American people need to know what is going on here, when you decided to become a whistle-blower?  Mr. Snowden, what is your perspective on the USA FREEDOM Act? Is there still information relevant to section 215 in the document archive that hasn't been released yet? Yes.  Take a look at the Inspector General report that was released earlier today.  It's heavily redacted.  I think the government has a legitimate interest in concealing *some* of that information, but certainly not all of it.  Especially when Congress is considering reform/reauthorization of Section 215, the public should have a better sense of how the law is being used. That report, by the way, underscores both that the surveillance laws are too permissive and that the oversight system is broken.  According to the report, it took the FBI 7 years to develop minimization procedures meant to protect the privacy of innocent people.  The FBI is using Section 215 to collect huge volumes of information, including metadata and electronic records, about innocent people.  And despite all of this collection, the FBI is unable to point to any casenot even one!in which the information it obtained turned out to be crucial to an investigation.   What can the everyday U.S. citizen practice to protect their privacy when it comes to email and other online correspondence? There is a good list of vetted tools here:

https://www.privacytools.io Hi Mr. Snowden.

Have you ever been in contact with the only senator to vote against the Patriot Act, former Senator Russ Finegold? What are your thoughts on him?

[Link to his speech on opposing the Patriot Act, Oct. 12th, 2001](http://www.archipelago.org/vol6-2/feingold.htm) With the government blatantly breaking the law, with absolutely no repercussions, what is stopping them from continuing breaking the law / Constitution anyway? My uncle and I once debated what your leaks meant in the grand scope of things, Mr. Snowden. I said you were at least an honorable whistleblower, he disagreed and called you a traitor for betraying your country. With people confusing Patriotism with post-war 9/11 paranoia, how can we get people to break their blind faith in government? Part of what makes us intelligent is the ability to see other points of view. Is it possible to be patriotic without drinking the 'murica kool aid? Why the fuck is this post being downvoted? Like, who is downvoting this?? IT had almost 6,000 upvotes and now it's down to 5114. 800 people just downvoted the post? That can't be right. Someone please explain this to me. Edward, where can we send bitcoins your way to ensure your living expenses are covered? UPDATE: 5:11PM EST: Edward Snowden is back on again for more questions. Ask him anything! What are your thoughts on Rand Paul's idea that we need better protection for Whistleblower contractors? What kind of protection would that provide ideally?  Can you say something to all the Fox Newsers out there who still aren't behind killing the Patriot Act? If you look at the polls that were released earlier this week--one by the ACLU, another by Pew Research--it's clear that a large segment of "Fox Newsers" are troubled by the scope of the government's surveillance activities.  I think the numbers surprised a lot of people.  Here are the links: https://www.aclu.org/sites/default/files/field_document/privacy_poll_results.pdf and http://www.pewinternet.org/2015/05/20/americans-attitudes-about-privacy-security-and-surveillance/ Jameel,

Do you think that, if section 215 were extended, the FISA court would take notice of the recent 2nd circuit ruling and possibly not reauthorize new secondary orders / issue a new primary order? Good question.  The Second Circuit's decision isn't binding on the FISA court, but I don't think the FISA court will just ignore it.  The FISA court will have to grapple with its reasoning.   I run LHC@Home, does my i5 actually help you guys in any sort of meaningful way? of course you do. you are basically using the same geographically distributed computing protocol we run among our computing centers. so your CPU cycles are also crunching some bits of a potential new discovery! be sure of that! (fr)  How much computing power do home users contribute compared to CERN's computers? 4 4 whole flops

Edit: unsure of how many people responding to me are aware that flops are actually a unit of computing power, albiet a very small one. Cats per donuts* I'm glad this caught on.  ...and if you encourage also your friends to do so it will help us even more! (lm)   Could provide a link please!  http://lhcathome.web.cern.ch/ You can also run [ATLAS@home](http://atlasathome.cern.ch/). With that you actually help the ATLAS experiment simulate collision data. We have detailed simulations we run and these are critical for us to fully use the LHC data we record. And, we are always short of computing power (even though we have a lot). Thanks very much in advance!!! 

(bh) This is the first time I have heard of the LHC@Home aspect of the CERN project. I didn't know that some of the computing protocols were being executed outside of the projects system. 

How can we at home help with the projects ongoing expirments/computing?? Install the software.


Also, collide particles. [WE'RE HELPING!!](http://nest-expressed.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/12/Kids-Smashing-Toys-Small.gif) Absolutely! Every bit of CPU helps. One of the most important inputs to our analysis work is the simulation of physics events. We use these to understand the signal we are looking for and the background we expect. The precision of a result can depend on the statistics of the simulated event sample.  So, please keep LHC@Home on, when you can.  Thank you! Are there any small data sets publicly available for running benchmarks on the software such as LHC@home?

Little background on the question, I come from an enterprise bigdata background.. From expanding open source tools to optimizating performance (in the scale of running PBs of data/TBs RAM). 

That being said, I think there are many other software engineers/architects out there that get just as hyped over physics... So it would be interesting to see how much the software can be optimized / improved to get the most out of all the distributed computing..

Tl;Dr, is there any sample data set to enable software engineers to poke/expand these tools? LHC software is 2+ years outdated at this point, which in distributed computing is huge!! (before Spark/in memory processing , LXC/virtualization). Explain to me like I am five: why are you doing this and what makes it important? What could we/you do with this data in the future? 

 i can give you an example. in 1800 the study of electricity and magnetism  were considered an highly  theoretical study with no practical uses. at most was used for circus shows. once understood by means of theory and experiments it shaped the modern world. try to think how could you live without electricity. the research we are carrying out at cern may seem far from everyday life today however will bring forward our knowledge of the natural phenomena and it has already practical spin offs. for instance accelerator technology is used for inoperable cancer surgery and as you may know the software protocol that powers the web was invented at cern (fr)  Epiphany, heresy, novelty, ingenuity, industry, ubiquity.  

Science.  Usually in that order.

Edit: Pay less attention to this half assed pseudo witticism and focus on the guys colliding particles at near the speed of fucking light.  Fuck me. Beautiful. Stealing this. Spoken like a redditor. I made this Epiphany, heresy, novelty, ingenuity, plagiarism, ubiquity.   [You made this?](http://i.imgur.com/wGm0TaK.jpg) Epiphany, heresy, novelty, ingenuity, patent trolling, bankruptcy. Now do Taco Bell  Masticate, contemplate, masturbate, defecate, hibernate.  

Taco Bell.  Usually in that order. Maybe "deliberate" as step 1 Or hesitate  &gt; Epiphany, heresy, novelty, ingenuity, industry, ubiquity.
&gt; Science. Usually in that order.

This shit is straight up T-shirt worthy. &gt; the software protocol that powers the web was invented at cern (fr) 

Wow - TIL - [Cern HTTPD](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CERN_httpd) On a NEXT computer.  hahaha ok - really 5 or like a general member of the public 5? (I have a 5 year old)

EDIT: Ok, general member of the public 5 it is!


Why are we doing this? Well, mainly because we want to! Scientist are... sort of like kids, actually. Curious about the world (and occasionally smashing things together to see how they work). We want to understand our universe, and why it looks and acts the way it does. In particle physics we think of the universe as being made up of tiny little "building blocks" - legos, if you like. There are different types of blocks, too - some that we use to make up things, and others that are used to join the pieces together. These are the matter particles (we call them "fermions") and the force particles ("bosons"). We can't say we really understand our universe until we know why all these different pieces look exactly the way they do, and act exactly the way we do. And we really really want to understand these things!


Why is it important &amp; what could we do? These are trickier questions :) There's the obviously vague answer - because knowing more about our universe will lead us to future breakthroughs and discoveries. But we can't really say what! But here are some short examples of what has happened in the past:

- When Einstein developed his theory of General Relativity, he just wanted to explain the way gravity worked. Now, your GPS locator in your smartphone uses these exact GR equations to remain accurate.

- most particle accelerators are actually found in hospitals, in MRI machines, helping with diagnostic medicine.

- the web was developed right here at CERN to help scientists transmit important pieces of information to each other and aid in data analysis. Now, hello! :)

- the Grid, which is a network of high performance computers we use to analyse the vast amounts of data we get from our experiments, is also used in other fields (such as breast cancer image processing, I think)

  I actually kind of want to hear how you'd explain it to your five year old. hmmmm.....



Do you wanna build a model?

Of particles and all their fields...

We need something to unify,

and maybe simplify,

describe all our event yields.

It gets a little lonely

with just one family

so why can't we just have three?

Do you wanna build a model?

We'll call it the [Standard Model](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_Model)

*&lt;go away, gravity!&gt;*

Ok bye...


EDIT: obligatory thank you for the gold kind stranger! (my first gold too, woot!) how many times have you watched Frozen? I have a five year old as well and as I sang this she came running into the office smiling, then she politely told me "that's not the way it goes daddy." Then she sang the song correctly for me. Thank you for the moment. One of the reasons I love reddit. Lots :) My son (yes son) and I also love singing along to the songs in the car. I was actually writing up the theory chapter of my PhD thesis at the time, so... well, one could say it was inevitable :)

Thanks for sharing your moment! This is pure genius The internet is pretty cool. I just got out of bed 5 minutes ago and I've already read an original poem written by a genius who works as a CERN Particle Accelerator Physicist.

The day can't get any better than that. I think I'll just go back to bed now. but wait it can! [Sing along...](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9YwXff-i1fY) Wow. I have two 5 year olds and I ask them all the time if they know how things work, how plants grow, etc.
When they realise that they don't, they ask back questions and from there on, we can actually go and discover what nature is.

Thanks to "The Dinosaur Train" they know what an hypothesis is: "it's an idea that you can test". Love it! and this is why smart people have smart kids (usually). Kudos to you!! Not sure I am smart, but I certainly try to make my kids smart about the world. Yeah, you're one of those CERN researchers who is not smart, I'm sure. I have my [moments](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/1hh45m/what_is_your_best_i_am_not_a_smart_person_story/caudqyo) "Explain like I'm five" is a phrase used on this web site a lot. It just basically means "explain like I'm an extreme layman". I know, but I also have a 5 year old, so ;) Human beings do certain things to survive: eat, drink, make babies, and learn about the world around us.  We are naturally curious animals. Over time, we have found that, every time we learn something new about nature, the information is used by our children or their children to help them survive.

This is not just important; it is essential. We are not as fast or as strong as many other animals. But, we do have this bump on our shoulders that helps us to keep from getting eaten or from dying of disease.

We have learned how to farm, how to make electricity, how to travel and communicate around the world. All of these started with  basic research. Your parent's mobile phone (I know you are 5 and might not have one yet) can do things it would not be able to do without the contributions of Faraday, Einstein, Niels Bohr, and many others.

In addition, our pursuit of these discoveries often leads to more direct applications. Examples are MRIs, PET scans, touch screens, and the Worldwide Web.

We do not know exactly what our discoveries and measurements will lead to.  It is too soon to say. But, we do know they will contribute significantly to our understanding of our world. And, as human being, we have no choice but to pursue them.  It is a question of survival.


 If it leads to hoverboards or a limitless battery *we're with you* ! I'm with it either way.  We are just curious. Just as you (5-year old) are curious. For instance if you see a hole you want to find out if there is anything in that hole, and what it is. We see the Universe and particle physicists want to understand what it is made of and how it came to be. Whether this is useful or not we don't know as we don't know what we will find. 

(bh) Understand how nature works.
Back in the day, cathode ray tubes (electrons) and mechanical contraptions were also just things with no apparent use to make better letters (communication) or carriages (vehicles)...  As a layman I'd like to ask, how powerful are typical collisions and how powerful *is* 13 TeV? How can the equipment be improved so higher energy collisions can be done?  Clap your hands together. Congratulations, you've made a collision with more energy than the LHC :)

The difference though, is in the energy **density**. Stick a thumbtack against one of your palms, and clap again. Notice the difference? :D By concentrating the collision point, even with the same total energy we get a more intense collision. Protons are really, really, really tiny, so when they collide the energy density is huge, making the results a lot more interesting than a hand clap. Okay, now I get your point. What am I supposed to do with all this blood I am holding? Analyze for particles! What do you think *they* are doing after a 'clap'? Having an existential crisis and then drowning their sorrows in one of the four detectors This is a great response!  Is this a good counter to people who are afraid of the LHC causing massive/world-ending damage? Well, you can't create a black hole with your bare hands, so it's not really a deterrent for them. (Actually, the only way we could get black holes in the first place is if we live in a universe that has large extra dimensions and gravity gets much stronger on the very small scales. Otherwise we don't have enough energy even at the LHC) 

For this we usually say that the universe has been [making these collisions](http://press.web.cern.ch/backgrounders/safety-lhc) for a long time, at even higher energies, and we are still here. TeV is not *powerful*, but it is quite *energetic*, still 

As for increasing the energy, one can either:

* invent magnets that can sustain a larger electrical current (and produce a more intense magnetic field), or
* build a larger accelerator ring, or
* both :-) The LHC is 14 TeV. A twinkie contains 3.5254541410^24 electron volts. Better yet: there are ~250,000,000,000 LHCs per twinkie.

Quoting /u/thechao But that's 13 TeV *per collision,* and there are about half a billion collisions per second. So roughly 1/500 of a twinkie per second. Finally some units in this thread I can understand. EDIT: I don't know my calories and the right (and somewhat more sensible) answer is [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/37ldev/we_just_broke_a_world_record_at_the_large_hadron/cro5avh). 

~~The full LHC beams at 6.5 TeV will have - at most - about the energy of half a million new twinkies~~ You're rather off there. Food calories != thermochemical calories. By a factor of 1000, if I remember correctly.

Try [this](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=%282880*1e11*6.5+TeV%29+%2F+%28135+calories%29&amp;a=UnitClash_*calories.*LargeCalories--&amp;a=UnitClash_*TeV.*Teraelectronvolts.dflt--) instead - which points to 531 twinkies instead. Does anyone at the lab ever call it the Large Hardon Collider and giggle? I made that typo in an email response once. It's infrequent enough to still be funny.

A quick search on the [CERN Document Server](http://cds.cern.ch/) brings up 24 results. (am) maybe i sound a bit strange here, but i really like in what way science has developed. Since ages it was some secret stuff, often funded by military backgrounds, but here you publish your documents open for all and let the whole world be part of this experiment.
 &gt; and let the whole world be part of this experiment.

In a very literal sense too, what with LHC@Home. [Combination of top observables at the Large Hardon Collider](http://cds.cern.ch/record/1599559?ln=en) I myself haven't done this, but we do take amusement when things like [the BBC](http://cockplot.blogspot.ch/2015/04/bbc-has-hardon-for-lhc.html) does :) (NSFW!) &gt;hardon   
&gt;bbc

Must... resist... the immature jokes... It's a dark matter. Nah, we just call it The Machine :) what is the biggest enigma in particle physics that you guys want to find answers in your lifetime? These are my top three questions:

* What is dark matter is made of ? We know it's there but have never been able to produce or detect it on earth.

* Why the Higgs is so much lighter than the Planck mass? This is the so-called hierarchy problem (http://arxiv.org/pdf/0801.2562v2.pdf). Supersymmetry or a composite Higgs would explain this but we haven't seen any evidence for either theory. 

* Why are there 3 copies of quarks and leptons? They have the same properties (e.g. charges and spins) but they have very different masses, e.g. the up quark is ~100,000x lighter than the top quark. We have no idea why that is.

Edit: fixed typo, thanks roarphony. Found a better link.

(aw) Small typo: the *top* quark is ~100,000x heavier than the *up* quark.

 Is there a certain energy "goal" you are aiming for? Or simply trying to increase it as much as you can? Well, in an ideal world we'd want as much energy as we can get! :) But there are many limitations. The LHC as it is currently designed is for 14 TeV centre-of-mass collisions. The magnets have now been trained for 6.5 TeV per beam, making 13 TeV centre-of-mass collisions, but if all goes well in the next year or so we'll try to get up to the design energy of 7 TeV per beam. 

Of course, the experiments themselves were built specifically as per the energy designs, and we have already started working on the upgrades to our detectors for when we do the higher luminosity running.

And then, in the far future, people are already working on the design and physics scope for future colliders, even up to a 100km-circumference [Future Circular Collider](https://fcc.web.cern.ch/Pages/default.aspx) If the LHC is designed for 14 TeV center-of-mass collisions, why is it necessary to start at lower energies? What are the barriers to "get[ting] up to the design energy?" Hello! This is RAF from LHC Operations. Thanks for your question!! 
The commissioning process of the machine starts always with beams with very low intensity and at the injection energy of LHC (450 GeV). Those beam can be safely lost in our magnets without compromising the integrity of the LHC. Those beams help the operations crew to set up all the basic parameters of the accelerator to make sure that "when more energetic beams" are present, i.e. when we accelerate them, they will be "behaving correctly" i.e. the beam dynamics will be under control and the beams will not be lost anywhere in the magnets. Another point is that, before we accelerate the beams, we qualify all the machine protection systems, and this has to be done with beams that cannot damage the machine. Once the machine protection systems are qualify, more energetic beams, if fail, they will safely dumped in our beam dump systems. Another point: during season 1 (from 2009 to 2013) you might remember we ramp our beams to no more than 4 TeV per beam. The reason was a problem in the super conduction magnets interconnections. After very careful calculations by the experts, 4 TeV was found to be a safe energy to run LHC until we took the time, between 2013 and 2014 to fix the interconnections. This intervention allows us, today, to ramp our beams to, for the moment 6.5 TeV.

Please ask me again if the answer was confusing.  Thanks for the answer! That makes sense - I was confused because I thought the issue was in the capacity of the LHC to produce more energetic beams rather than safely withstand them. I appreciate the explanation. Jon Butterworth has a great analogy in his latest [book](http://www.amazon.com/Smashing-Physics-Jon-Butterworth/dp/1472210301). It went something like:
&gt; Keeping protons going round the LHC is like whirling a rock around your head on a piece of rope. The protons are the rock, the magnets are the rope. You really don't want the rope to break.

(It's a good read, would definitely recommend) &gt;If you remember in season 1...

I'd watch... Game of Bosons: Hundreds of your favorite subatomic particles are destroyed in surprising and gruesome ways. Game of Bosons: watch the Z, W, , H, and g fight for supremacy of the land of the standard model.

Only one is charged.
Only one is coloured.
Only one is spinless.
Who will win? I'd only watch it for the sex scenes with really large bosons What does "lost in the magnets" mean? That the beam goes off course and hits the magnets, damaging the equipment. ~~This actually happend the first time they switched it on~~ *(I'm wrong, that was a different problem, see comments below)*. A huge pain in the ass that takes months to fix. They can't just replace a piece, because the whole ring is kept extremely cold, so they need to warm it up first, and later cool it down again, which takes months. [What actually happened](http://press.web.cern.ch/press-releases/2008/10/cern-releases-analysis-lhc-incident) was that the interconnection between two magnets was not perfect, causing a resistance. When current ran through it caused a spark, which happened to puncture a liquid helium line. Tons of liquid helium expanding in seconds out into the LHC tunnel is not a pretty sight.

(edit: link to cern analysis of incident) The failure you mention, I think, was the cryostat failure of 27 March, 2007. An overview of the event [here (start reading at the bottom).](http://www.fnal.gov/pub/today/lhc_magnet_archive.html) It's actually an excellent example of the careful engineering goes into accelerator physics, especially at the energy frontier. The cryostat failure didn't occur with "beam in the machine" but happened during a pressure test -- the cryostat supports weren't strong enough, and broke under the forces exerted by the magnets. 

You're right about what "lost in the magnets" means. BTW, the magnets that failed were the final magnets before beams collide -- quadrupoles. Dipole fields turn the beam, quadrapole beams focus.   It's ICP's new album  The sheer power in the collider fucks up the magnets.

Some magnets evolve (sorta like Pokemon) into superconducting magnets when they get really cold. 

So here's a scientist at CERN, pumping colossal power into these magnets. The more power, the more heat. So you need to up the air-con. 

One day the air-con breaks and the superconducting magnet gets just warm enough to de-evolve into a regular magnet. 

At this point the magnet pops like a champagne cork, since the magnet can't funnel all the power going in. Now you have two problems: 1) flying metal 2) lots of electricity going no-where in particular.

Not only is this really dangerous, but really costly to fix. Finally, precision is key so you don't want power-spikes or flying metal ruining your measurements. 

TL;DR CERN started with training wheels, and is slowly upping the gears to make sure the machine can handle load. Energy of the protons is proportional to the current in the bending magnets.

You can only reach the maximum current going through all the values in between. In that process you exercise all the associated circuits.

In 2008 electrical connections between these magnets were found to have faults. Since then, these have been redone and we can now get closer to the design energy.

The last bit missing is related to the training of the magnets (they need such a thing) and to go from where we are now to the design current, it take a long time, and physicists are eager to get collisions... There's an abandoned one in Texas! Quite a shame, really: http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/the-supercollider-that-never-was/ Although some may argue that it could [never have existed in the first place](http://resonaances.blogspot.ch/2008/05/paulis-other-principle.html) :p

(joke, obviously) &gt; The magnets have now been trained for 6.5 TeV per beam, making 13 TeV centre-of-mass collisions

How do you train magnets? 

Edit: Language is hard. I am dumb. And I imagined magnets training to eye of the tiger...

Edit 2: Realized before CERN answered. Still god burned. Damnit, nice one! At least the link is very interesting. :) The magnets are trained by gradually increasing the current and causing them to quench, that is to go out of superconductive state.

Here's an article about preparations, there are few paragraph about the training: http://home.web.cern.ch/about/engineering/restarting-lhc-why-13-tev I can't wait for the new animated feature "How to Train Your Magnet" [Dum. Dum dum dum. Dum dum dum. Dum dum dummmmmmmm](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=btPJPFnesV4)
 Hello! This is RAF from LHC Operations. Thanks for your question!! 
The energy goal is 7 TeV per beam. This number is fixed by the magnetic field our magnets can achieved "by design" and by the circumference of LHC. So these are design limits, it is not possible to overcome them. To overcome the limits we would need magnets able to stand more than 12000 amps of current or an LHC-like with bigger circumference than LHC, i.e. more than 27 km. In fact the next proton-proton accelerator design is based on a 100 km circumference to get 50 TeV per beam (but this is a project under study). Some more details can be found here: http://home.web.cern.ch/about/engineering/restarting-lhc-why-13-tev

If I was not clear, let me know! What kind of experiments could be run/ideas tested with 50 TeV per beam that cannot be tested at 7 TeV per beam? Is it just a bigger "bang" when they smash into each other with smaller fragments or? Generally speaking, higher energies can cross thresholds needed for discovery. (The complementary is more collisions, that once you are above the threshold, help you find rarer phenomena.)

An alternative path is to look for indirect effects: subtle effects that may be revealed in high-precision measurements. But that's a very long discussion. any chance of finding graviton? Yes! There are theoretical ideas that there could be additional spatial dimensions in the world, and if those are large or warped it may be possibly that we see signs of gravitons at the LHC. You can find more about it [here](http://home.web.cern.ch/about/physics/extra-dimensions-gravitons-and-tiny-black-holes).

(bh) We're looking for all kinds of crazy things at the LHC. As experimentalists, which predictions by theorists does everybody like best?  

Are you hoping for SuperSymmetry?  

Extra dimensions?  

Dark matter candidate?  

Which triggers do you have your eye on? As an experimentalist, there is one thing I hope we find above all others.  That is, I hope we find something that has not been predicted by any of the theorists.

I have nothing against the theorists, but it is much more fun when nature surprises us. I bet you were happy then when the Higgs-Boson's GeV was exactly in between the two theories, not being super-symmetry nor complete random =) I was happier that the ATLAS and the CMS results for the mass match up pretty well together: http://journals.aps.org/prl/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevLett.114.191803 As an experimentalist, I like all predictions that can be ruled out by experiment.

So, no particular preference and certainly no hope for any one in particular.

What drives me is to be able to lift the veil on nature. Indeed we are looking for a very broad range of things at the LHC, and Supersymmetry, Dark matter and extra dimensions are among them. As an experimental physicist I don't actually care myself which of them (if ANY) is right as I just want to find out about what Nature is. We conduct typically 100 searches for particles at any moment in time, and have also several hundred triggers which decide which data we record. Dark matter is indeed a particularly well motivated thing to look for as we know for sure it exists! We just don't know what it is and indeed we search for events with a large imbalance in momentum to find dark matter.

(bh) I know from that [song](https://youtu.be/j50ZssEojtM?t=45) that "LHCb sees where the antimatter's gone." 

Will collisions at 13 TeV give you new data to understand the baryon asymmetry in a way that lower energy collisions couldn't? How?  During the next few years ("Run 2"), LHCb expects to more than double the amount of proton-proton collisions collected in 2011 and 2012 (technical talk: we hope to add 5 [fb](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barn_%28unit%29#Inverse_femtobarn)^(1) of collisions to our existing 3 fb^(1)). In addition, the production rates for B hadrons are expected to roughly double with the increase in energy.

The size of the uncertainties on a lot of key measurements relating to matter-antimatter asymmetry are expected to decrease significantly.

See slide 19 in [this presentation](https://indico.cern.ch/event/324660/session/4/contribution/44/material/slides/0.pdf), and compare the columns highlighted in brown and blue. (am) Are there any specific theories/models you'll be able to confirm or rule out?

&gt; The size of the uncertainties on a lot of key measurements relating to matter-antimatter asymmetry are expected to decrease significantly.

I'm going to guess there's some CP violating processes you're trying to investigate?  &gt; Are there any specific theories/models you'll be able to confirm or rule out?

In general: not directly. Our detector can make very precise measurements that give sensitivity to possible new heavy particles at energy scales far below their masses. If we measure something that disagrees with its Standard Model prediction, then that suggests there is something new, but it's difficult to conclusively say which model might be responsible.

&gt; I'm going to guess there's some CP violating processes you're trying to investigate? 

Yep. We have already made several measurements of processes that are known to violate charge-parity symmetry. More B particles with Run II will give us access to rarer and rarer decays.

(am) Hey, I visited CERN last November with my school, glad to see an AMA.

What is the biggest thing limiting your research with the LHC? Glad that you enjoyed your visit! Currently the LHC is the most powerful machine in the world for this kind of research and it is ready to produce physics results at least for the next 20 years. In collider physics there are usually two limiting factors: 1) the total available energy (we are now at 13 TeV) and 2) the rate of collisions we produce. More energy opens up the possibility to produce more massive particles while the collisions rate increase the possibility of producing very rare processes. We are already addressing the collision rate with upgrades foreseen in the next few years that will push it up by two orders of magnitude. For a substantial increase in energy we have started studies for a new potential accelerator that might push it up by a factor of 10 but this will take several decades to be realized. We are sure that the LHC will show us the way to go before building the next machine! (lm)
  What was the party like after you discovered Higgs Boson? [Here](https://cds.cern.ch/record/1475204) are some photos of the ATLAS celebration when we published the first Higgs discovery paper (for your eyes only). About a year after the discovery we also got a [prize from the European Physics Society](http://home.web.cern.ch/about/updates/2013/07/european-physical-society-honours-atlas-cms-and-lhcb) and we used that award to throw a big party on the lawn at CERN for all of ATLAS and CMS. 

(bh) Personally, just after the discovery I went home to sleep.

But CERN did throw a party more than a year later when we were all properly rested: http://bosons-and-more.web.cern.ch/bosons-and-more/ Can't believe I caught an AMA as its happening.

Hey guys, I have a few questions:

1) Pop science keeps claiming you're trying to recreate conditions at the Big Bang. Are you actually doing that? If yes, are you trying to recreate inflationary epoch as well? If yes, can you ELI5 as to how?

2) There was a brilliant article on Aeon magazine ([link](http://aeon.co/magazine/science/margaret-wertheim-the-limits-of-physics/)) about theoretical physicists taking mathematics way too literally. As in, just because the mathematics of string theory is beautiful, many physicists think that multi-universe is real. Do you think this is in any way hindering the progress of science at the moment? Or does this sort of public debate happen on the sidelines and not affect actual theoretical physics work?

3) Why do you guys even use Google+?

edit: linked article 1) we are creating conditions shortly after the big bang, about 10^-10 seconds, so 1 tenth of a billionth of a second.

2) This is an interesting question. Indeed beauty has been a powerful guide to theorists in the past and so it is used as a guide for the future. There is a nice article by Eugene Wigner on the [Unreasonable Effectiveness of Mathematics in the Natural Sciences](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Unreasonable_Effectiveness_of_Mathematics_in_the_Natural_Sciences)

(bh) And in reply to (3), we do [these on G+](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLAk-9e5KQYEroNUYrWHAANKJL3LDz9-L_)! I've been studying the Large Hadron Collider for four months, out of pure interest and fascination. I have a lot of questions!

1.Will LHC ever accelerate anything besides protons &amp; lead ions?
2. What are collimators for?
3. What changes will be made to the Super Proton Synchrotron when LHC becomes even more powerful in the future?
4. What does LHC sound like?
5. What is "special optics physics"?
6. What is "tune feedback"? I can't cover all of it but...

&gt; 1.Will LHC ever accelerate anything besides protons &amp; lead ions? 

We had a test Argon run, but I think it just reached SPS and North Area.

&gt; 2. What are collimators for? 

Collimator are used to clean the beam of stray particles that go too far from the main part of the beam. It's better to stop them in known places (Points 3 and 7) than to lose them somewhere else. 

&gt; 4. What does LHC sound like?

I didn't hear anything special. I guess that the current consumption from the cryogenics subsystem (which uses most of the energy) is more or less constant. For sure it's possible to hear when SPS is accelerating particles - the power substation makes a different sound :)

&gt; 6. What is "tune feedback"?

Could you give me a context? There are lot of feedback systems at CERN :)
 Looking at the LHC dashboard screen, there's a graph labeled "tune feedback". I wanted to know what that was.

Can I have more specifics on what LHC sounds like? (for example, pitch, etc.) Former atlas member here.  Some of the magnets and other controls give protons a push up, down, left, right, forward, backward.  There are resonant frequencies that could have the protons go left right left right ect so hard they vibrate into the beam pipe.  This should be avoided by tuning the pushes these give to be away from the resonant frequencies.  The tune is what we call this collection of settings. I'm not sure, that could be something related to acceleration, maybe phase correction or something. 

There's the standard buzzing of the power substation. When SPS is accelerating it sounds more rough. I think power to the LHC Point 4 goes using an underground cable and I've never heard any difference (or maybe I didn't know it's accelerating :)) I like how every question is marked as the first That's Reddit formatting for you.  Will it turn me into the flash?  No.

EDIT: Sadly. Nice try, Eobard. Will it at least open up a wormhole that facilitates time travel? I don't think so.
Sadly again. Are you guys even trying? Not hard enough, apparently. /chuckles/ Do you at least contain and store super-powered criminals beneath the LHC?  I'd like to think that you typed your answer, then imagined yourself running alongside the protons through the tunnel and then edited your answer. Why did I have to scroll down so far to see this question?

But don't worry Vag_blaster69, to me, you've been the Flash for centuries  As far as I understand dark matter doesn't interact in any other way than gravity. Considering that any dark matter created in collisions will be much to small for the gravity to be detected. How will you study it? Will you just be looking at energy calculations and saying that some of the energy disappeared so it must be dark matter?  Good question! Although we have very good evidence for dark matter interacting gravitationally, we dont know if dark matter interacts with known matter. In order to produce dark matter at the LHC we need to assume that there is such a (possibly weak) interaction. In the most interesting models of physics beyond the Standard Model, dark matter does indeed interact with known matter: we can hope for man-made dark matter to be produced during the next run! Once produced we could then detect it using missing energy signatures. (Dark matter is also searched for in important underground and in satellite experiments.)

(aw)  More details on dark matter search strategies at the LHC:

http://profmattstrassler.com/articles-and-posts/relativity-space-astronomy-and-cosmology/dark-matter/searching-for-dark-matter-at-the-lhc/ Hi, so now that Higgs is around 125GeV are the theories of Multiverse hold any merit? Well Before the discovery, we had two main contenders for physics beyond the standard model both predicting a range of Higgs masses (supersymmetry and the Higgs as a composite particle, like the e.g. the proton). Supersymmetry prefers a slightly lighter Higgs and composite Higgs models generically predict heavier Higgs particles. Both theories are still alive since the predicted Higgs ranges overlap with what has been discovered, but the allowed parameter spaces have been reduced and the kind of cancellations required to make it work have increased a bit. 

Multiverse theories do not provide clear predictions for the Higgs mass, but they offer an explanation for the absence of any visible beyond the Standard Model physics (like new particles). Maybe one could say: as long as we keep not finding any evidence for physics beyond the Standard Model, theories of the multiverse will increase in attractivness for some physicists. 

(aw) If the LHC was transparent, what would we see when the collisions occur? no you cannot see collisions with naked eyes. we need detectors to record the product of the elementary interactions and powerful computer to reconstruct the traces that these particles leave into them such as tracks of energy depositions (fr)  "Seeing" is done by large detectors with several layers of materials that each help measure a different property of the particles created in the collision.

- A tracker helps identify the trajectory of any charged particles produced.
- Calorimeters measure the energy of the particles.
- Muon detectors observe these "heavier cousins of the electron".

Putting together all this information from various sub-detectors presents us with a single picture of what happened at the collision point.

(This is a bit of an oversimplification, but I hope it makes sense) How does it feel to be doing something so important for human kind? Do u put a lab coat on everyday and say "TIME TO FUCK SHIT UP" Let's dispel a common myth about CERN: most of us do not wear lab coats.

And when I get to work mode, I say "TIME TO CRACK NATURE OPEN".  After which Andr peruses *Science*. /u/RaoOfPhysics, I hope you mean the method, not the magazine. Mostly I say "Not another email..." or "Sorry I must run, I'm late for a meeting!" What language do you speak at CERN? C++ the official languages at CERN are (broken :) english and french. however many other languages are spoken. many physicists from all over the world work and communicate at CERN (fr) Just to make sure; this isn't just a facade to hide the development of a time machine right? 
There are theories that you have tried to send people to the past but all test subjects have transformed to jelly, is this true?
If CERN did successfully develop a time machine, would they guarantee the freedom of humanity and not strive for world conquest?  No, SERN beat us to that :( Not this again :( Yes this again. :) I've been here for every one of your AMA's. I am so sorry you have to keep going through this. Enlighten me? It's a reference to the anime Steins;gate. Tutturuuuuuuuuuuu El Psy Congroo Sounds like the average web of deception laid out by the Organization. Just need an IBN 5100 to break down the web now!! Ate you actually a fan of Steins;gate, or do you just get a ton of questions about the show? 

Because I'd laugh my ass off if someone at CERN was actually a Steins;gate fan only on AMAs it seems :) It's actually a pretty good show. If you have the time (which, considering the work you're doing, you probably don't have a lot), I'd recommend giving it a watch. It gets kind of Inception-y and mindf%$k-y, but it's really well done. Just a tip though, watch the Japanese version with English subtitles; it's a lot better.  /wonders how long it will take to get on Netflix France... Any plans for facilities to supersede the current experiments? Yes! We are already thinking about this. You have to start early: the first discussions about the LHC took place in 1984. More information on future projects is e.g. here (https://fcc.web.cern.ch/Pages/default.aspx). One of the ideas is to dig a larger ring to reach energies of the order of a 100 TeV.

CERN actually also has a range of smaller experiments running (http://cast.web.cern.ch/CAST/cast_pub.php) or planned which are not related to the big ring, e.g. (http://ship.web.cern.ch/ship/) or (http://iaxo.web.cern.ch).

(aw) Well, you have to differentiate between accelerators and experiments. Usually we use the previous accelerators to provide beams to the newer ones. We use beams from different accelerators for different experiments. For example ISOLDE still uses beams from Proton Synchrotron and North Area still uses beams from Super Proton Synchrotron.

There are ongoing efforts for new machines/experiments:
* https://fcc.web.cern.ch/Pages/default.aspx
* http://clic-study.web.cern.ch/ 

EDIT: The FCC is a long-term project. It's not expected to be completed in the nearest 20-30 years :)
 Will the LHC be capable of finding clues on the true nature of Dark Matter? And can the LHC help theoretical physicists test String/M Theory? I think we all hope so. If dark matter particles can be produced in collisions at the LHC, we can probe its nature by looking at missing energy in the detector; i.e., not finding energy where we would normally expect to find some, since dark matter particles would likely just fly away without interacting with the detector.
 You can find a lot more details on how we search for dark matter at the LHC (and what this "missing energy" business is about) in this post by M.Strassler:

http://profmattstrassler.com/articles-and-posts/relativity-space-astronomy-and-cosmology/dark-matter/searching-for-dark-matter-at-the-lhc/

As far as I know, string theory has not yielded any testable predictions at the energies available at the LHC. When will the next update meeting be about the newer particles that you found this time around with the higher energy collisions? Do you expect to see newer particles this time around?
 The short answer is that we don't know since we just don't know what particles exist in Nature. We are exploring higher mass particles in the new run and if there are any we might find them in a few months, or it could take years or even decades. It depends a lot on what exactly the new particles are, what their mass is etc. 

(bh) Ok so I work in an industry where clock accuracy is very, very, very important. So I have always been curious about this:

&gt; A link from a GPS receiver to the OPERA master clock was loose, which increased the delay through the fiber. The glitch's effect was to decrease the reported flight time of the neutrinos by 73 ns, making them seem faster than light.

73 nanoseconds is...well clocks are far far more accurate than 73 nanoseconds. Even from your GPS source to a number of servers in your infrastructure (or FPGA/etc etc). I'm curious specifically what your GPS timing setup is like? You should be single digit nanosecond quite easily. So I've always kind of been surprised about this error. As someone noted, OPERA was not an experiment at CERN, though it did use a beam of neutrinos produced at CERN.

My understanding is that it was exactly what you mentioned: an error. I.e., a mistake, whereby two cables where not properly connected, introducing the observed time difference.

There is a quite detailed Wikipedia page on this: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Faster-than-light_neutrino_anomaly "CERN customer support, how can I help you?"

"Yes, err..we seem to have stumbled upon superluminal neutrinos."

"Did you unplug it and plug it back in again?"

"Well fuck.." I remember reading about this a few weeks ago.  They used fiber optics to connect they systems and as you said the fiber was a little loose.  Initially it seems weird because light travels about 73 ft in 73 ns.  So how could it be that loose?  When the fiber connects the light hits a photodiode and that triggers the trigger.  But since the fiber was loose, the light intensity was lower at the photodiode and it took a few dozen nanoseconds to build up enough electrons to trigger the trigger, causing the clock to be a little slow. That measurement was not done at the LHC, so I'm not sure you'll get an answer.  Just wanted to chime in and say I had the pleasure of meeting a few CERN scientists including several working on the ATLAS and Fermilab projects and your director general Dr. Heuer at a White House event a few weeks ago. As a graduating high school student, I was completely in awe of their accomplishments, but also shocked at their humility. 

Every scientist was more than willing to answer even the most basic questions and carry on a conversation. I spent about a half hour talking to Dr.Heuer and the director of international relations, plus another 20 minutes 1-on-1 with a few ATLAS project members. I asked questions ranging from "What is the purpose of increasing the energy levels?" to "What do you hope to find in the next decade?" and even more specific questions like "What resources does the U.S. provide in their partnerships with CERN?" and "How deeply involved are Asian countries in CERN?" (along with normal small talk about our families, studies, childhood, etc. , too). And every single question was answered thoughtfully and thoroughly. They never spoke down to me, only using analogies when the discussion got too deep into theoretical physics like super symmetry and dark matter. 

I just want to thank all of them plus all of the people working at CERN. Everyone I talked to *genuinely* just wanted to spread science to the world and discover something new. They weren't elitist, they wanted to involve everyone they could.

Some of them were shocked to hear I hadn't visited the LHC and suggested I come down to visit this summer. While I don't think that's happening this year, it's quite possible I will be down there at some point in my studies, especially if I pursue physics on a graduate level.

So thanks again, good luck, and keep making scientific progress!  I'd ask a question, but they pretty much already answered everything...

-Alex

Edit: Rudiger Voss is the international relations head that I was talking about, I blanked on his name. Also, I don't think I recognize anyone from the event doing the AMA, but let me know if you were there at the NSF-DoE-CERN signing, too! Quite possible we've bumped into each other there.  Was there excitement leading up to this milestone? (Assuming you knew beforehand that it would be occurring) What was the atmosphere among staff? Was it strictly professional and scientific, or were there some high-fives thrown around? There were high-fives and some more celebrating with champagne. After all it is not every day that you see the LHC providing what we need to probe deeper into nature's secrets. These pics might give you an idea of the atmosphere in the CMS control room (these are from the Second batch of splashes, 2015-04-09). Lots of exitement, smiles, and lots of busy busy people. 

https://cds.cern.ch/record/2007769 /u/andres_delannoy took those pictures, btw! Oh yes definitely! Many many people have been working many many years for this achievement - the LHC was originally concieved around [1984](http://timeline.web.cern.ch/timelines/The-Large-Hadron-Collider/overlay#1984-03-21 13:30:00). So it is wonderful when such a large project comes to fruition :) As an undergrad physics student really hoping to get into this field, what can I do in my own time that might aid me on the experimental side? Get good at coding? EE work? 

Also, I'm curious to hear about how you guys ended up at CERN, I know most people don't always know where their life is taking them, any cool stories?

Thanks for the AMA, big fan of your work!! In your own time? Talk to your profs. They are not scary - I promise - and would love to chat about their research with you. Ask them for a job helping out in their lab or something over the holidays. And yes, coding is definitely important. But there is hardware work too - we'll always want to build more experiments. So if that's what you enjoy more you could focus on that.

When I was in highschool I read a book where one guy was an astrophysicist, and I thought "Damn, that has to be the coolest job title ever". So I went to Uni all set to do a degree in astrophysics. Until I actually did a couple astro projects and found out it wasn't that interesting :) Luckily I ended up almost by chance doing some shifts at an high energy nuclear physics experiment in the US (I'm from South Africa) and it sort of went from there... Indeed getting good at coding is a great skill to have, and extremely useful for particle physicists. And, try to find an opportunity to do research during a summer with a professor. There is also the [CERN summer student program](http://home.web.cern.ch/students-educators/summer-student-programme) you can apply for.

(bh) Isn't the LHC designed for 14 TeV? If yes, when are you reaching it? Yes, indeed the LHC is designed for 14 TeV. The reason we are running at slightly lower energy this year is that it takes time to condition the magnets to be able to hold the current necessary to run at higher energy. This conditioning of the magnets to go to 14 TeV will be done in the future but when exactly is not yet clear. For now we are already very excited to have 13 TeV collisions as this is already a big increase compared to the previous 8 TeV.

bh Is there any possibility at all of you guys creating a black hole in the middle of Switzerland and wiping out the human race..? In very simple terms, there is absolutely no risk of creating macroscopic black holes that are of any danger. For more details you can check a dedicated  [webpage](http://press.web.cern.ch/backgrounders/safety-lhc#black) where all details are given with also explanation about what we call hypothetical micro blackholes. (lm) You are all doing fantastic and extremely important work. What are you looking forward to discovering this season?

PS Are you looking for any amazing IT/IS people? I would love to move to Switzerland and work on this amazing project. Thanks! It's a quite an exciting time for us. After the Higgs discovery we are now looking for new physics that we know must be there. One  of the many searches is to detail what the dark matter might be and if it is composed by " standard" particles. We know about the existence of dark matter by its gravitational effects but we don't have really a clue of what it is. LHC might help in finding it. 
CERN as a quite active IT division. Please refer to [the cern jobs page](http://jobs.web.cern.ch/) and good luck for your application.   (lm) How big is your electrical bill? It's believed that there was equal antimatter and matter at the beginning. Also, I saw a video which said that LHC season 2 aims 2 find out what happened to the antimatter. Are there any theories about this that physicists think might answer the question?

Thanks
Aman Yes! There are plenty of models that try to explain why we live in a universe with much more matter than antimatter. They can be grouped under the categories of 'Baryogenesis' and 'Leptogenesis', but we generally talk about the former.

There are three conditions that Baryogenesis must satisfy (as posited by [Andrei Sakharov](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrei_Sakharov)): 

1. There must exist processes that produce more matter than antimatter. (Baryon number violation)

2. There must be an asymmetry between these processes and their inverse counterparts. (Charge-parity violation)

3. The imbalance must have occurred away from thermal equilibrium. This one is difficult to explain.

The first condition has never been observed, but LHCb and other experiments are searching for it.

Measuring the second condition is *the* key focus of LHCb: we have known for more than 60 years that the Weak force treats matter and antimatter slightly differently, and decays of heavy particles are a good way to measure this asymmetry and improve the precision of the numbers used in theory.

(am) What are some of the long term practical applications you can envision for this research? Feel free to go wild.  you may have heard about project for reaching mars or even for deep space travel. one showstopper there is propulsion. we won't get very far with chemical thrusters. fully understanding the nature of fundamental forces may pave the way for a new kind of engine that can power deep space exploration. however developing space technologies  is not a current research topic at CERN (fr) How long will it take for your results to become statistically significant?  

(Or how many runs does it take?) This depends a lot on what "it" is. For instance there are some particles called "excited quarks" for which only a few weeks of data could already reveal a statistically significant signal. However, for other theories it can take years. Since we don't know what our next discovery is we really don't know how long it takes. We are doing many analyses all simultaneously to make sure we cast a wide net and find whatever there is.

(bh) What's for lunch?  I had meetings. Delicious! Noodles. It was *ok*.

Our menu is online: http://cern.ch/restaurant1 Let's hope the chef doesn't catch wind of this review... otherwise it's cheap noodles in a cup for you :)

edit:spelling How are the "fish and ships"? :P Whatever looks good from the salad bar (am) I was on shift in the CMS control room from 7am to 3pm today, so I just had some trail mix and coffee(s) :|

Somewhat related:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IMItxzSZs0E Well, I went home (it's really close) but there are three restaurants serving different meals. There's usually pizza, some vegetarian food, some non-vegetarian food, salads, pasta... How can one get to work with you guys? If I have 0 knowledge of physics (ok perfect till high school, 0 after that) but am great at all things CS, how close can I get to your work?  You don't have to be a physicist to work here. I'm an Electronic Engineer but recently started working as an Software Engineer. Here's CERN's job portal where current jobs offers are posted: https://jobs.web.cern.ch/ How was a normal working day? Working day with no launch:  My job was to ensure equipment was in good shape for the next launch.  Very procedural.  

Working day with launch:  Filled with checks and tests being done on a very rigid schedule.  Everything had to be done at an exact time with certain checking being done and done successfully.  They had to be done at the exact right time to fit in with the launch itself.  There were times we couldn't test for things if the 'bird' wasn't in configuration for it.  So we had very narrow windows to test for things.  Otherwise, we'd set off bells and sirens across the area. How did you keep log of tested / not tested? What could prevent someone forgetting a test or wrongly marking as done? Not tested is blank - tested isn't in the master list you/your department/the group have (in huge projects like this you track them at each place), and the biggest way you prevent someone forgetting or wrongly marking it is either a) duplicate forms/questions - if they don't match full stop until you know why even if it means retesting something, or b) multiple people, person 1 goes through list with person 2 documenting each step, switch it and person 2 goes through the entire list with person 1 documenting it.

I know you asked him but, this is the answer :P Do you have any cool pieces of space/NASA memorabilia?  I do.  Here's one: http://imgur.com/5pr643w   People have asked me if we really went to the moon or not.  I always said, the math never lies.  If you can prove one error in the math, you can prove we didn't go to the moon. I also have a block diagram/schematic of the command and control system we used.  The system was a single point of control for the range control system.  We used this to ensure that we could detonate any errant missiles in case something went wrong.  We also used it to control airplanes by radio remotely, or turn off/on switches.  We even used it one time to send a signal remotely cut a ribbon to open a state fair in another state. I have the WISE bus block diagram in my cube, there should be a trade/sale market for those things, they are so cool. Does NASA release theirs online somewhere?  [Hi](http://klabs.org/history/ech/agc_schematics/) [there](http://history.nasa.gov/diagrams/diagrams.htm)

edit - dang, thanks /u/Kjeik Do you enjoy going around looking stuff up for people? If it's something I already know where to find, it's an easy share. If it's something that I'm curious to find or learn about, then yeah, I do enjoy looking stuff up for people. Because, gosh darnit, I'm people!

Clearly I also forget I have this account available.

edit - thanks for the gold /u/cambridgerunner. I'm going to have to actually use this account more often now! Well thumbs up man! Keep doing good work! Thanks, man! Keep being curious! using "x" for multiplication is giving me a migraine. It works for simple algebra but when you have dozens of variables and then use an "x" the same size/font as those variables, you can see why they started to favor * instead. Not to mention SQRT instead of the actual root symbol. This is probably a limitation to the typesetting that was possible from the printers of the mug. Paging /r/theydidthemath for an explanation. The first two lines tell you how fast you need to go to escape the gravitational pull (of Earth). That's about all I remember. You know math is hard when the whole alphabet is in an equation  It's all over once the Greek letters start rolling out.  And then you know you're in deep when you run out of Greek letters... And you start coming up with imaginary numbers.  I once managed to quit gravity, but then I fell off the wagon :( I believe the second to last line is the equation for momentum. the reverse side of the mug explains the equations. 

http://www.thespaceshop.com/itonrosc.html Now it just needs another side to explain what that side is saying. [here you go](http://imgur.com/5pr643w) I'm going to guess at escape velocities, trajectories and fuel weight / force equations. Does anyone know if that mug is for sale online somewhere? yeah, you can pretty much get it at any of the nasa visitors centers. this one is from ksc. the picture on the website only shows the side that explains the equations but the reverse side is the same. http://www.thespaceshop.com/itonrosc.html  Im sure, years ago when I have read "ksc", I immediately thought about the Kennedy Space Center. For some odd reason I cant explain, the first thing which came into my mind while reading your post was: How can one purchase a mug at Kerbal Space Center? Easy, just look at the shelf to the right of all of the pods that burnt because there wasn't a heat shield. well.. I understood the symbols for  Sine and Cosine part, so there's that. When took the job, did you think the moon landing was an actual possibility, or a crazy goal that you could only try to achieve?  When I took the job, I didn't even know a moon landing was on the table.  We were just busy trying to keep the Russians at bay.  It was strictly a defensive job at first.  Initially it was a joint program for testing long range missiles for Army, Navy, Air Force together.  In fact, before NASA, we were called the "Long Range Proving Ground".
NASA came after all this. Ooo, cool! Thank you for your... (service sounds odd) efforts! 

When you were hired on, did they ask pointed questions about communism and socialism? Questions that would not be asked today? Believe it or not, no.  But I went through all kinds of security checks and I was military. Service is appropriate. Members of NASA provide a crucial service to humanity.  civilian government employment is officially called "federal service" or "civil service", so yeah. service guarantees citizenship Would you like to know more? [desire to know more intensifies] They still ask those questions although not in so many words.  I had a government job offer with a DoD agency that was recently rescinded due to budget cuts (after 3 years of waiting), and they go through pretty much every part of your adult life.  They don't care if you're a socialist or whatever per se, they just care that you're not going to commit espionage or attempt to overthrow the U.S. government from within.  Just a formality, really.  How were people after a failed mission? Was there a lingering sadness or were people ready to go, determined to have the next one be successful? When there was loss of life, there was deep sadness by most everyone that I knew.  The reaction was always "What do we do to prevent this from happening again?"

There was so much testing from everyone to make sure a mistake never happened again. So much investigation and testing. I find it absurd when people point to space exploration accidents as a reason not to develop deep space exploration technology. 

Riding on a rocket to the moon is much safer than the majority of human exploration endeavors. Hundreds of people died trying to find the northwest passage and other exploratory goals. Exploring is dangerous, and the only reason there haven't been *more* accidents is because NASA overengineers everything to be as safe as possible. Great feats of human progression never came without sacrifice, it's a reality we need to face. Qutar 22 /s Nothing in football is "progression" And yet the fatality rate on building stadiums is much higher than space exploration... Isn't that something? Indeed and in fact it's far more perilous to stake the survival of our species remaining stuck to one rock hurtling though space.  What was the atmosphere at NASA like during the moments before the moon landing? What was it like witnessing it and what were you thinking? It was very intense.  We really wondered if they were going to make it alive.  It was extremely dangerous.  It gave us all heart attacks.  When the landing occurred, I was actually at home.  We had made the launch so my duties and responsibility were over. I can imagine it would have been. As someone who wasn't alive during this time it's always fascinated me. What were the days like after they had landed? Could people not stop talking about it? I can't imagine what it would be like to have witnessed man walking on the moon for the first time, people must have gone nuts with excitement? I was born shortly after they brought back and analyzed the moon rocks.   The entire front page was nothing but articles on the space program. 


My baby announcement had rocket ships on it  &gt;  The entire front page

God I spend to much time on this website, first thing popped into my head was "on reddit"? Im gonna go study..... Lol.   Newspapers used to be a big deal.  People actually had them delivered to their homes and if you didn't get one your neighbors thought you had money problems.     What inspired you to go into engineering?  Good question.  When I went into the Air Force in 1945, I was assigned to a B-29 Radar tech.  So this was my world.  I just continued on afterward.  Even as a boy, it all started because I was always interested in wires and basic electronics.   What kind of basic electronics did you have available as a kid? Did you build any projects? [This is a taste of that world.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lIJysrD1xSE)

If he went into the military at 18 in 1945 that means he likely "caught the bug" sometime between the ages of 10 and 15. 1937 to '42. His was an analog, [ingeniously mechanical](http://craphound.com/images/Marchant_EFA_SIDE_view.jpg), electromagnetic world of [wires and resistors and diodes and capacitors.](http://www.rfcafe.com/references/electrical/images2/bendix-model-75p6u-bob-davis-2.jpg) 

A world at war. Radio was king and Television was barely on the cusp of its golden age, a novelty of the rich. If you didn't live in a big city, you may have never even seen a TV broadcast. Just movies and newsreels at the local theater.

He might have started exploring with tearing apart the telephone, tube record player and radio. He likely did the popular thing of building himself a Cat's Whisker crystal radio set. Ham radio would be a logical next step. Good post. Pulling things apart is a great way to learn, especially if someone is pressuring you to put it back together in working condition again :) What was it like waiting 3 days for your men to get to the moon? Any trouble sleeping? Where nerves high? I wasn't too nervous really.  My part was over after they were safely off the ground and into space.  My nerves were high up until that point.   Are there any movies that accuratly depict what NASA is like; the look, the everyday activities? I'd say Apollo 13.  That's really the only movie.  That movie was well done and very believable.

In terms of the Astronauts being 'womanizers and playboys' the movie The Right Stuff got that right.   Throw in the miniseries "From the Earth to the Moon".  Narrated by Tom Hanks.  ...it has an Apollo 13 vibe to it.  Really good! I haven't seen that one but I liked the "when we left earth" mini series. I really loved The Right Stuff  Speaking of Apollo 13, I found out a few years ago that my grandfather worked for TRW on the Apollo 13 engines. I wish I had gotten to ask him anything about that before he passed away.

Thank you for doing this AMA. And to the grandson: get all the information you can out of this man. Thanks for doing this ama! 
I have 2 questions: 

1- What is the most memorable point of your career?

2- What was it like working for NASA during the space race?  People forget how much testing we did for things no one had tried before.  During a Navy launch, the main stage the missile came up and started cartwheeling over our building. The second stage of the missile went up and landed just a couple thousands yards away from us.  The funny thing was, the press was there and quite a lot of photographers were with us at the time.  At T minus 5, we turned off the radar so it wouldn't interfere with the launch.  Right as the rocket went haywire and flipped end over end a message came on the radio "Take cover!" The rocket hit the ground and rocked us.  It was the nearest I ever came to being hit by a missle. That must have been a PR nightmare especially considering the media was there :D Are there any of the old press reports/pictures or video for this launch? I've seen a video that shows our attempts to perfect rockets, starting at the very beginning. Let's just say it took a lot of practice to get right. It was a great video,  I'll see if I can find it. 


Edit- [Found it](https://youtube.com/watch?v=McbCwSW2moo)! I'd be willing to bet that OP was at at a lot of these. Looks like a pretty dangerous job,  there's really no safe place to be. And I can't even imagine how much money went into this,  but without doing so we wouldn't be near the nation, or world, we are today. It's a shame that our governments aren't trying just as hard today as they were back then to explore space  but I guess once they perfected blowing people up with these things that it was mission accomplished.  Felt like I was watching all my early Kerbal Space Launches...  In a way you are. I think that is part of what makes Kerbal special. You fail and learn just like the real scientists did. I can't even begin to describe how many times this same thing has happened to me in KSP... When the Challenger accident happened, did you have a say in the launch / no launch discussion? If not, what would you have advised? No, I didn't have a say.  To tell you the truth, I would have had no advice.  To me, it was just another launch.  I didn't know questions were being asked already.  (Grandson:  See his other answer on the o-rings.)

Even when I saw the disaster, I initially had no clue what happened. [Previous Answer regarding o-rings.](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/37cb8l/iama_retired_nasa_engineer_i_worked_for_nasa_in/crlgjli?context=1) What has been the biggest change in NASA from its start to present day that you have seen? So much became more streamlined over time.  At the beginning, so much was "We have this problem, how can you find a way to fix it?"  We had no precedent for a fix.  But over time, methods became so streamlined and tested. What do you think about the rocket company, SpaceX?  Seems like they are doing a great job, in my opinion.  I don't read the paper much anymore.  But I see it on TV and I think it is wonderful.  I've been away long enough to not have much inside knowledge.  What is something cool about NASA that we ordinary citizens might not know? Here is something - NASA takes advice from industry leaders 4 times a year. The meetings are open to the public, as is NASAs deliberation. You can also read the minutes online for each committee and for the full NAC (NASA Advisory Counsel) meeting. If you want to know what is going on with NASA it's actually very easy to find out :) Grandson:  He's thinking about this.  If he get's something, I'll reply. Besides the aliens he means :) 1. What was your impression of von Braun?

2. What were your feelings while trying to beat the Soviets to space, and how did the Agency as a whole react to the first few "failures" where the Soviets managed to be the first to accomplish those certain milestones in spaceflight?

3. What role do you see games like Kerbal Space Program playing in the education of future engineers? 1.  von Braun:  Very very knowledgeable.  Extremely knowledgeable.  He had in his brain the things that ordinary people had to carry around in their notebooks and "computers".  
One time at the block house, where it was crowded, and the entire crew was off the pad and in the blockhouse, I was standing right next to von Braun and Kurt Debus and von Braun looked at a chart and said "the missile will hit right HERE."  Just in his mind.  And he was exactly correct.

2. We were very disappointed that we were not first.  We knew we had a lot of catching up to do.  Our space program, politics entered into everything.  It seemed that the Russians were more reckless than we were to win.  We had no idea how many people they may have sacrificed to get men into orbit.  Not for us.  We were careful, we started with monkeys and then men.  Then we finally put a man in orbit.  Everything was a study to be sure.  Very methodical.  It was the German way.  Even the Gemini program -- it had steps, one at a time.  The American way was to be patient and do it the right way.  And that sacrifice meant we weren't the first.

3.  Grandson note: He has an entire tech room devoted to computers, sound recorders and so much more.  But he has never, ever touched a game.  Its just not his generation, sorry. As a follow up to the first question, was it ever uncomfortable knowing what von Braun had done during the War? You mentioned that loss of life was not an acceptable part of the space program, was this also the case with von Braun personally?  Here's the way I see it.  Sometimes your job is just to follow orders to survive.  And that's just how it is.  I'm sure some of the stories about slave labor were quite true.  But if that's what your government says to do, you just have to do it.  He wasn't a soldier, he was a scientist.  Not unlike what my government asked us to do in working with him. Thank you for your reply.  &gt;von Braun looked at a chart and said "the missile will hit right HERE." Just in his mind. And he was exactly correct.

Seems like where the rockets come down [*was* his department, after all.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QEJ9HrZq7Ro) "In German, or English, he knows how to count down..." "und I'm learning Chinese!", says Werner Von Braun. How hard was it to get a job at NASA in the 50's compared to today? I don't know much about today.  But back in the 50's, it wasn't hard at all.  I interviewed, took a short test and that was that.  They sent me the whole package and a short time later, I was a contractor at RCA working for NASA.  At that time, they were hiring just about anyone that showed interest and had any sort of aptitude at all.  And as we grew, we had to do all the training. What a time to be alive! Born too late for easy employment, too early to enjoy a utopia of machine automation. Now our online applications collect dust for 6 months before they're systematically deleted. Not even a courtesy email reply these days... :/ Hi, I just got a position at NASA-KSC as a civil servant employee and I may be able to answer your questions if interested. As far as I know, the only way to get a job at NASA (as a civil servant) is to apply for it at https://www.usajobs.gov/

You can also get a job as a contractor through various contracting companies and their personal pages. As far as how hard it is to get a position, I would say its more on the hard side. Interning is the best way. There are two possible ways to go about it. You can go to http://intern.nasa.gov and apply to the OSSI program, which is a contractor intern position, and from there apply to the pathways program: http://nasajobs.nasa.gov/studentopps/Pathways.htm

You also can just apply to the pathways program directly. Pathways is the program I am in, which is equivalent to a Co-Op in the private sector. There is a lot of competition, but there is often 30 openings a semester just at KSC. How was the culture there as the history of the space race went on? Could you sense a change of attitude as time wore on?

How do you feel about the cutbacks towards NASA? It started out intense and ended up more intense.  The more people we put into space, the more challenging it become, safety-wise.  

As for the cutbacks, I feel that we should continue all the exploration that we can.  I don't know that I would cut back on anything else over priority to this. Thank you What was your (or someone you know) most expensive mistake?  During a launch one time, I made a mistake.  They asked me what I could have done to prevent the mistake, and they asked me what could have been done.  I answered.  (Story below)

I had four recorders I used to match up a flight path for a missile.  We used paper to do the calibration checks.  The paper was very short.  I'd roll up the paper and put it on the coordinators desk.  At some point, someone came up and picked up the papers and put them down in the wrong place.  So when we picked up the papers again, everything came out wrong.  I told them this wasn't right and the recorder was wrong for the flight pattern.  They ignored me and launched anyway.  Everything went right of course, as the problem was the flight papers were out of order, that was all.

I got a reprimand for this for one year.  They asked me how I messed up so badly.  I told them they needed to number the flight papers 1, 2, 3 and so on so this couldn't happen again.  At the time the Air Force didn't allow writing on papers like these to keep an order.  It was budgetary.  They wanted to save money (even though it was pennies.)

They saw the relevance.  And they took my advice.   Look after the pennies, the dollar look after themselves. Thank you for you reply. &gt; I made a mistake

Sounds like you're not the one who made the mistake, though. More like prevented more mistakes! What were your interoffice relationships like with your coworkers given the gravity of what you guys were trying to accomplish? Relationships were very, very good.  We had people that weren't so technically apt, not like we needed them to be, of course.  We had one guy that used a hammer to put in a $1000 lamp into a system.  Just an example.  And that was frustrating, when people operated like a bull in a china shop. 1) Did you work with Homer Hickman? What was he like?

2) What was it like to have to help the Apollo 13 mission?

3) Does NASA and/or you believe that one day we will make contact with alien races?

Thanks so much for your time and service! :) 1.  I'm sorry I don't know Homer Hickman.  I know who he was, but never had any sort of interaction with him.

2.  To me, it was successful because it got off the ground.  That was my job.  For NASA, it was a disaster.  But for NASA to get those men back home, it became successful all over again.  

3. I have no idea.  (laughter.) I can't figure out if the laughter is because you get asked about extra terrestrials so much that it's humorous or if you're covering something up. What do you think lies in the future of space travel? How soon will I be able to buy a ticket on a shuttle and vacation on the moon? My knowledge is very limited about this.  But presently, I know we are wanting to go back to the moon and then mars.  From there I have no idea.  Sorry. Any habits inside of nasa that the outside doesn't know about?  We all put our pants on one leg at a time.  I don't have much to say about that, except that we were just very methodical.  Most people didn't know about the level of testing we did and our slow but sure methodology. How many guys have you worked with named Gene? I can think of two or three.  But no last names come to mind, sorry.  (Keep in mind, he is nearly 90 years old.) I think he's fishing for Gene Kranz story. And Gene Cernan.  And Gene Kerman No worries. It just seems like there's always a guy named Gene when NASA is portrayed in movies or on TV.  It is difficult to comprehend all of the variables involved in getting men to the moon. NASA must have been a chaotic beehive full of the most brilliant people. within that massive symphony of thought, there must have been people who disagree'd with major engineering decisions. Do you have any examples of engineers going against the grain?  I really wasn't exposed to that level, really.  Keep in mind, I worked for RCA, so we were often told what to according to their guidelines and specs.   There were lots of arguments of course.  But we had so much quality control, too.  So tests got ironed out and the best way would almost always win. If you had the chance would you go to space yourself?  No.  I'm too old.  I couldn't make it.

Back in my day, I had no desire to.  I had a wife and kids that depended on me.  And in those days, being an astronaut was a death wish.  In the early days, most of the missiles we used exploded.  So in my mind, I always thought (in the early days): "Another launch, another explosion."  So that's what was ingrained in my mind. Wow, that is amazing and incredible just how brave those men were.   Were you all very worried that your calculations would be wrong/off and it would cause someone to die? 

I can't imagine what it must have been like to be a part of the team that has to calculate those trajectories, timing, and physics of flying to another object in space. I don't know what anyone was particularly worried.  But we did lots of checking and rechecking.   I am a young adult from Huntsville, AL (a place that was basically built by NASA) and the other day my mother and I were talking about the direction our space program is headed, which is seemingly only being pushed forward by private industry now. How do you feel about the direction the US space program is in now and the current amount of progress we are pushing for?  In my opinion, the government really has no definite program that we can aim for right now.  The only thing we really have going for us right now is civilian and private endeavors.  But that won't give us a direction anywhere except where they themselves want to go.  I hope that makes sense. What is your favorite book? The Bible.  

Other than that, my favorite book was "Hidden Pearls" by Abbie Benton Bonsteel.  When I was a teenager, this was the best book at the time.  It wasn't technical, but it was wonderful And the whole of Reddit went silent... nuff said. Except for /r/atheism, which just collectively rage-shit itself. As a vehemently anti-religious ex-mormon, I can still let my respect for another person overcome my feelings about their religion. Shortly before the challenger disaster  Thiokol engineers warned, that the O-ring that ultimately failed wasn't tested for the occurring low temperatures and would likely fail,  but  NASA went forward with the launch  anyway because is had been delayed multiple times already. 

Do you think NASA was too reckless because they had so much success in the past and felt "invincible"? That's a question I'm not qualified to answer.  But I can say that the o-rings were not tested at low temperature.  Thiokol may have done their testing, but to my knowledge we did not.  I need to mention that I was ONLY involved in the electronics and not the hardware end of things.  It was need to know.  So I can only say what I infer.  I do agree with you that NASA was aloof about this, and they may indeed have felt "invincible".  But again, this is beyond my pay grade. This case study was beat into us at school. They story we were given was NASA, who was behind schedule, pressured Thiokol management, which caused Thinkol management to disregard warnings from Thiokol engineers. What level of blame each party had is debatable. Not sure how much debate there really is unless quantifying damages. NASA put Thiokol in a lose-lose situation of give green light or get cut in the future. Thiokol management took the risk and lied. The reason this is a case study is because the Thiokol engineer who flagged this became a whistleblower and got shit on by Thiokol. It should also be mentioned, that countless engineers both on the pad and in the control room pushed for the abort of the launch. However, they were silenced and told that it had worked in the past twice and should work without a problem again. 

Unfortunately just because you got lucky twice in Russian Roulette doesn't mean third time's the charm...  Did you rub shoulders with any other Project Paperclip (read: German) Scientists? And if so what was your impression of them? Haven't heard that term in a long, long time.  There were a lot of Nazi's that we wanted to bring here, such as von Braun.  There were all 'paper clipped' to avoid them going to trials so we could get them.  The only one I 'rubbed shoulders' with was von Braun (Grandson: Story above.) 

Peter Haufmann-Haur (Grandson: So very sorry I am botching this, and he can't remember how to spell it) I also worked with.  He would come and bring parts to me to build a circuit of some sort for whatever he wanted to test and I'd build it to his specs.  He was very nice.  So very likable, one of the best kind of people you'd ever want to know.  Didn't seem like a Nazi at all.  And he really knew his radar, too. were there any reservations against the German scientists? 
 In regards to von Braun and Haufmann-Haur attitudes, would you say that they were 'Nazi's' merely as they were Germans and were funded by and for the Nazi's, rather than politically and ideologically.  Where do they hide the UFOs?  :) Hanger 51. I did work on the B-29 radar in Roswell, NM in the Air Force.  There was one hanger they said not to go near.   We did it reddit! Was he joking about this answer? What is your 'personal opinion' on extra terrestrial beings, after working with NASA? Suspiciously unanswered... Sorry.  He just laughs it off. A likely story. He probably had to clear whatever answer he had with 18 different people.  And only four of them are humans. And only 12 of them government employees And one of *them* is from the future. Or, unsuspiciously unanswered? &gt;Two possibilities exist: either we are alone in the Universe or we are not. Both are equally terrifying.


&gt; Arthur C. Clarke While it is a good quote, I don't exactly agree. I'm more terrified at the prospect of us being alone. But, I personally believe space is just too god damn big for us to be. I don't really think they've visited us, but, out there somewhere has got to be something else.

I think the craziest thing to think about is the possibility that maybe aliens just zoom on by our little solar system because we inferior humans are nothing but cows to them. What if aliens are scared of us because oxygen is like the biggest poison/toxin they know of and we breath it to live? Then, I'd feel like superman! Our own little personal Krypton! I wouldn't be so excited about having our own Krypton, that doesn't really turn out so good for Kryptonians. . . The reptilians have gotten to him. RIP What was your favorite project to work on?  One of the things that impressed me the most is how one program would dovetail into another.  Everything had a purpose.  And when that purpose was accomplished, to see it turn right into another was really neat.

I really had fun.  One time, we had an air breathing missile dropped from a plane out in the Atlantic.  It had no destruct package on it.  It was the only missile I could recall that had no destruct package.  So we called in F86's in to follow the missile in case it went off course.  They were to shoot it down.  This was the only time I ever vectored a fighter plane.  It was really exciting.  It was one of those jobs where they said:  "Here's what you have to do.  Now go figure out a way to do it." Aliens??? I was married to one.  (Grand-son note:  She was from Roswell, NM.)
 Haha! Was that widely known? And did they ever wonder why you never brought "her" to NASA picnics??

:) Hello, thanks so much for being here!

1. How involved were young engineering students in the Apollo program?  Was it mostly a closed-doors, professional affair, or a massive, open effort from all parties?

2. Perhaps a more dreary question, but were you there the day the Challenger broke up?  What was your perspective on that event, and the decision to detonate the remaining pieces of the launch vehicle, knowing that the crew was lost? Young students did come in to work with the engineers.  As long as they could get in, they were treated as students, but given lots of opportunities to learn.  They applied to get into the program and were assigned to us.  The specifics of how they got in, I'm not sure about It was my system that detonated it, but of course, I didn't pull the trigger.  That was the Range Safety Officer that did that.  Only he had that authority.  It was 99.9% sure they had passed already.  It had to be done due to the boosters running amok.

I was on the console when this happened.  I knew the malfunction had happened.  But I had no clue the magnitude at the time.  All we saw was a ball of fire.  It wasn't until I went outside that I saw the debris that I knew how bad the explosion was.  My hope was that the shuttle had peeled off and was going down to land on the skid stip.  

**EDIT**
I remember after we assembled all the debris and shrapnel together to analyze, it explosion must have been terrible.  Seeing switches, for example, that were just completely destroyed.  I really didn't want to see the wreckage at all.  It was so sad. One story:  Where I was, we had no observation deck near to us.  So we would all run over to the men's restroom and look out the window.  It was the quickest way we had to see a rocket launch. Hi thanks for doing this AMA! A friend of mine wants to do what you did and she doesn't know how to get there. Is there any advice about schooling or any advice in general that you can give her? Study study study.  And study some more.  My route was military.  But these days there are so many routes to get there.  I am too old now to have much of good advice for you. What kind of education do you have and how did you get the opportunity to work at NASA? Mostly Air Force.  I volunteered for Air Force in 1946.  Many courses through this and RCA kept me continually up to date.
I went to Howard College (which became Samford University) and I studied pre-med.   Mr. Cochran, how did the systems track the relative orientation of the craft? I understand that in aviation gyroscopes can be reset in extreme turns. I'm very interested in the on-board/ground control operation.

Do you know how maneuvers are conducted? Is the vector continually corrected or intermittently corrected? I really don't have knowledge on the avionics side.  My background was in radar and wireless communications.  That was my job for Range Safety.  The closest I came to navigation at the cape was when I worked to adjust compasses for aircraft, but they were all magnetic. Why did we let the shuttle program shut down without a replacement? It's embarrassing to have to use Soyuz to get to the International Space Station. I have often asked that question myself.  I don't know why they didn't do this.  I retired in 1988, so this was a while ago.   The shuttle program was shut down because it was a lot more expensive than originally envisioned.  The initial budget estimates [assumed almost one launch per week](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Space_Shuttle_program#Budget).  The whole point of the shuttle was quick turn around between launches.

Instead that turned into one a month and gradually even less than that.  The final nail in the coffin was the Columbia accident.  It wasn't even close to fulfilling its original objective and it was costing exorbitant amounts of money to perform missions that traditional spacecraft could perform much cheaper.

No one can deny the cool factor of the shuttle, but many believe we would have been much better off if we would have stuck to conventional designs. Did you find that the organisation changed in a positive or negative manner during your time working there? 

P.s. Do you have any contacts? I would like a Job. I didn't know much about the politics since I wasn't that high up.  But the attitudes among our fellow people I knew quite a lot.  Many NASA employees didn't even know the full extent to what we were doing (in terms of missile launches, etc.)  
(Grandson note:  He won't say more as he doesn't want to implicate.  Sorry.) Keep in mind that NASA wasn't the beginning.  I remember back when the Navy and Air Force were doing the testing, no one really knew what we were capable of.  We just wanted to stop the Russians.  I remember the very first satellite we sent up, crashed back down, hit the ground and kept on beeping.  It was all just testing, trial and error.  

But eventually, everyone saw the relevance and the military technology morphed into NASA.  People like Von Braun already had all this in mind, I think.  They just waited their time until this could actually happen. Having worked on modern satellites, that fact that it kept beeping is very impressive.  "They don't make 'em like they used to." Have you ever been to Area-51? (he laughs.)  Almost.  Been on the same base. I'm currently 17 years old and looking into becoming an astrophysicist and pursuing a career with the ESA or NASA. What advice could you give to someone like me in what classes to choose while in secondary school and how to be even more prepared for and after college? (Grandson:  He humbly laughs.)  Study, study, study. And then study some more. Did it disappoint you that NASA only went to the moon a handful of times or do you think there is really no need to go there?  I was disappointed when the program ended.  But I didn't know of anything further they really needed to do with it at the time.  Above my pay grade. 
The transition to the shuttle program was for near space exploration, and set up of things like Hubble and building ISS.  Just a new program for a new transition and R&amp;D. What was your most terrifying experience in your career?  What are your thoughts on the EmDrive? (Grandson: Sorry, no clue.  He's nearly 90 so newer technology is too much for him these days.  He's aware of it, that is all.) Thank you for doing this AMA!  How do you feel about being a part of something that so monumentally changed history?  Do you feel that the 'space race' occurred at the right time in history or do you feel it was purely politically based and forced technology to catch up? It happened at the right time in history for my benefit.  I am just happy that I had a small part in it.  

One story, when I was in the block house with von Braun and a few other of the Paperclips (and many others) and a janitor walked up to me and said "Well, Bill, we got another one off, didn't we?"  And I remember that Janitor saying.. "we" got another one off.  Yes we did.  From von Braun to the lowest like me and this janitor, we all did it together.  Everyone played a part to get us there. In the second photo that you posted, do you remember what project you were working on? Or what you were specifically doing? 
 This was in the communications room.  It was actually a marketing shot.  We were posing.  Every picture you see from these times, almost all of them are like this.  Just made up for press. How is food in space? Was it out of this world?  He obviously didn't go into space.  He's laughing about this.  The astronauts apparently liked it... to a point.  They had to eat out of what looked like a toothpaste tube. So about that Tang... What was the initial attraction that took you to NASA?

Without their track record of going to space, how did they advertise positions? Keep in mind when I joined up, NASA wasn't even in existence. Back then it was called "Long Range Proving Ground."  I was working in Birmingham at the time, and I saw an ad in the paper for RCA jobs for a missile range in Florida.  I read the article, and it said they were interviewing in a hotel here in Birmingham.  So I called my wife and said I was going to apply later that day.  I showed up, filled out an application, took a test.  The rest is history. Hello!  Thanks for the ama. I read you worked mainly with electronics, but do you have any advice for an aspiring aerospace engineer? Do you think the air force is a good place to start?
Thanks again :)  I think the Air Force should be great.  But keep in mind, I joined in 1945.  I'm sure times have changed. Did you talk to Richard Feynman during the Challenger investigation? What was that experience like? No, sorry. What does an RCA engineer do? That abbreviation isn't familiar to me.

In the aftermath of the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster, The Rogers Commission and Richard Feynman in particular criticised the NASA management for having a bad, unsafe culture. It's my understanding that this was not the case earlier in NASA's history, that during the Mercury, Gemini and Apollo projects safety was a high priority (though there if of course some unavoidable risk with literally ground breaking research and development like this). Do you know when this bad culture developed, and how did it affect the engineers and other normal ground workers? (Grandson:  he laughs heartily.  Continues laughing.)  These kids are young, aren't they?  RCA stands for Radio Corporation of America.  I could give them an earful that would spin their wheels for a while on that one.  

Back in the 20's, General Electric had an electronics division that did nothing but electronics.  They had a lawsuit against them where RCA split from GE.  So RCA become its own company, built radios, TVs, you name it.  They also had a national broadcasting system (think NBC tone... the notes were G..E..C... General Electric Company.)  When RCA broke away, GE kept the tone.  In 1988 when I retired, GE bought RCA back again.  But I think its been sold off again and I don't know what it is anymore.  It means nothing any longer.

(Grandson: his job with RCA in Range Safety is described earlier I believe.) [deleted] Thanks for taking time to answer questions!  I have two:

1. Have you seen The Right Stuff, and is it an accurate representation of the space program's early days?

2. Aliens? 1.  It was fairly authentic.  It is sort of hard to answer, as I didn't talk with them daily, and so have no direct point of reference.  (Grandson: see his comments on Apollo 13.)

2.  Already answered, sorry! 1. Thank you for the good question. I believe I have been consistent throughout my political life in terms of my basic values and what I stand for. Obviously, when you are a United States senator working in a conservative environment, you often have to do the best that you can within the circumstances that you find yourself. Two particular examples: last year, I helped write the most comprehensive veterans legislation passed in many years. Trust me, I had to change my position on very important aspects of veterans' health care in order to get it passed. In terms of health care, I am an advocate of a Medicare-for-all single-payer program. I voted for the Affordable Care Act, not because I think it is the end place as to where we should be, but because I was able to get a major provision in it that greatly expanded primary health care -- which is helping many millions of people today. So the bottom line is that you have to stick by your values but when you're in an elected position, especially when you're in a conservative Congress, now and then you're going to have to compromise.

2. Great question. And let me repeat what I have said many times. The only way we deal with the major issues facing our country -- raising the minimum wage to a living wage, rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure, addressing climate change in a bold way, overturning Citizens United, demanding that the wealthy pay their fair share of taxes, making college affordable for all, etc. -- is when ordinary people put massive pressure on the Congress. Right now, the Congressional leadership represents the interests of the wealthiest people in this country and the largest corporations. Instead of raising the minimum wage, they're giving tax breaks to billionaires and cutting nutrition programs. Nothing will change unless millions of people demand it and that's what this campaign is all about -- mobilizing people at the grassroots level. Senator Sanders, I am the founder and moderator of /r/SandersForPresident. As you likely know, we have seen a MASSIVE surge in grassroots support and energy over the last year (most notably, in the weeks following your announcement). 

As a community, what is the SINGLE best way we can use our passion, creativity, and energy to help out and contribute to the cause? 

Thank you for everything you've done to help the state of Vermont and the United States. And thank you for the shout-out! 

EDIT: Since the solicitation of political contributions is likely prohibited in this subreddit, I will not be posting any links. However, if you insist on giving gold to the Senator, I would implore you to instead donate to his campaign. Surely the Senator needs the $5 more than Reddit and Conde Naste do, right?

EDIT x2: I'd like to add. We've been working for a over a year over in /r/SandersForPresident (since December, 2013 to be precise) to build up a large, informative, and supportive knowledge-base for all things pertaining to Senator Sanders. We want him in the White House, and if you're reading this and you have ANY interest in learning more about him, his voting history, and the beliefs he stands for, please pay us a visit! I'm attaching several resources to this comment as well - just keep reading.

If you want to chip in and help the cause, go ahead and subscribe to the subreddit. Participate as often as possible. Visit multiple times a day, read the comments, and **learn all that you can.** Spread the word far and wide! Bernie DOES have a chance and it's defeatist and flat-out wrong to say anything otherwise - you're just creating a self-fulfilling prophecy if you speak that way. He's honest, authentic, and one of the only people out there standing up for the common men and women of America. But even though it's going to take a lot of work to triumph over Hillary and her endless pockets of Wall Street money, we can still do it. And if you disregard all the stigma and misinformation, and just let his policies and 35 year history do the talking, the choice is obvious. He needs to be the next President of the United States of America. And he can be. 

* ~~Link to his official campaign website~~ I'm redacting this link, since their campaign is currently working on a new website, and the current one contains only a donation link and sign up form. I don't want to violate any rules by soliticing these things. **If you would like a direct link to their donations page and registration page, please visit /r/SandersForPresident and click the links in the sidebar.**
* [Link to his OnTheIssues.org page](http://www.ontheissues.org/senate/bernie_sanders.htm#). Don't let people spread misinformation! Learn as much as you can about Senator Sanders and spread the knowledge far and wide. His opponents will make up whatever kind of baseless, slanderous nonsense possible to derail him and his message. The best way to defend against that is to PROVE them wrong, with citations and facts.  
* [Link to his official 12-step platform](https://berniesanders.com/issues/)  
* [Link to register as a volunteer](https://berniesanders.com/volunteer/)   Thank you very much for your support. And we look forward to your ideas as to how we can run the most effective grassroots campaign possible. Certainly one of the areas that redditors can help on is in making sure that young people throughout this country understand the importance of politics and government. It is an American tragedy that in the last election, about 80 percent of young people did not vote. That is exactly what the ruling class of this country wants and we have got to change it. So mobilizing, educating and organizing young people is very much at the top of my agenda. Senator Sanders,

I am a student who is returning to Medical School in the fall after completing my undergraduate degree this past May. I was extremely fortunate to have been on scholarship nearly all four years of my undergraduate education and left school with only approximately $6k in student loans. However, returning to school in the fall, I am looking at adding to my student debt by about $58,000 dollars a year for the next four years. This means I will graduate medical school with around $232,000 dollars in student debt going into my residency, on top of the student debt I accrued in my undergraduate studies. Luckily I will be fortunate enough to have a high paying career once I am in my early thirties 7-10 years from now. However, there are students who are not as fortunate as myself, who will have the same amount of debt (and for some, more) with a job that does not pay nearly enough for the amount they were forced to spend on education.

[I recently read about your proposal for a bill that ensures free tuition to American college students.](http://college.usatoday.com/2015/05/19/bernie-sanders-issues-bill-to-make-4-year-colleges-tuition-free/) My question to you is, when you hopefully someday in the future get this legislation through and approved, what will happen to the students who already have mountains of debt to pay off in their names? Is there funding in the bill to alleviate the debt currently possessed by recent and past college graduates?

Thank you so much for doing this AMA. I have been encouraging all of my friends and family to do more research on you as a candidate, and so far everyone has been receptive to your ideas and the policies that you stand for. I look forward to one day seeing you in the oval office as the leader of this country. Great question. Our legislation not only would make tuition free at public colleges and universities, it would also cut student debt in half. It is absurd that millions of college graduates today are carrying debts of $50,000, $60,000, $100,000 or more. Our legislation deals with the issue of student debt in a very significant way. Senator Sanders, 

As a young political science student it seems many of my peers are feeling increasingly disenfranchised from politics as a whole, particularly due to increasing corporate influences in politics. 
But realistically what can be achieved when these interest are so intertwined with current political campaigns and current issues? Is there a way to separate these interests within a political system that seems to depend on the very same interests?


Also is it seems many Americans have a negative knee-jerk reaction to social democracy ideals, even if they may be beneficial to our society. Do you think there is a way we can discuss these issues that can bring in more people to the conversation?

Thank you for taking the time to do this AMA senator. Excellent questions. You are right. People in general and young people in particular are increasingly alienated and disillusioned with the political process. The middle class is disappearing, the rich get richer, young people cannot afford college, the crisis of climate change is ignored, and Congress continues on its merry way paying attention to the needs of billionaires and multinational corporations. The truth is that we are in a very difficult political moment. But despair of giving up is just not an option. I would not be doing what I am doing if I did not believe that this country could provide health care to all as a right; that we could lead the world in transforming our energy system and dealing with climate change; that we could make education affordable for all. My strong belief is that it is imperative that we maintain our vision of what American can be, and that we fight hard to make that happen. DO NOT GIVE UP. Redditor /u/SomeKindOfMutant, who claims to have interned for a senator, [says that the single best way for average Americans to get the attention of their senators is to write a letter to the editor calling them out by name and to get it published in one of the 5-10 biggest newspapers in the state.](https://np.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/1os8rz/how_to_get_your_senators_and_representatives/)

Do you agree with that assessment?  If not, what is the best way for us to influence our legislators?  And in particular, what can we do to stop TPA, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the TTIP, and TISA? Thank you. I believe that the TPP is a disastrous agreement and I am working as hard as I can to see it defeated. One of the reasons that the middle class of this country is disappearing is because we have lost some 60,000 factories since 2001 and millions of good-paying manufacturing jobs. We need trade agreements that protect and benefit working families, not just the CEOs of large corporations.

In terms of getting the attention of elected officials, writing letters and emails as well as phoning is very important. But, what is even more important is grassroots organizing. Putting together a meeting of 100 people about an issue and inviting that elected official to that meeting to hear comments would be a huge step forward in making politicians aware that you know what's going on and that you want your concerns addressed. I have done hundreds of town meetings as an elected official and urge citizens to organize them as fast as they can. Hi Bernie, hispanic college kid here, thanks so much for doing this AMA... Two quick questions!

1. Do you approve of the way the USA is handling their relationship with Latin America currently? Considering recent trade deals, the drug wars amongst other things have been hurting the region, do you think there is any way of changing the way the US relates itself to Latin America for a more mutually beneficial relationship? 

2. What is your opinion on the fact that the DNC has scheduled only six debates for the primaries? Since it's important to get the issues out there and get yourself to be known by the people, do you think six debates are enough? And if not, is your team working on making sure there are more? 1. Great question. Given the fact that Latin America is our next-door neighbor, I have been very distressed about the lack of attention that we have paid to Latin America. I applaud President Obama's effort to normalize relations with Cuba, a country which I have visited on several occasions. But I think much more can be done to bring the United States and Latin America closer and to improve relationships with a continent that faces many economic and social problems.

2. No I don't think six debates are enough and we will be interacting with the DNC to try to create a situation where we have as many debates as possible. There are huge issues facing our country. Candidates are entitled to different points of view. The American people need to hear a serious discussion on these issues, so I hope there will be far more debates than what the DNC has proposed. Bernie, big supporter here. Im moving to Burlington here in a couple weeks, so maybe Ill see you sometime.
 
Two questions for you:

1.	You have been one of the few vocal critics against the war in Iraq from the beginning. Do you think there can be just wars? And in what case would you be willing to commit armed forces into other countries?

2. Which thinkers have helped shaped your views the most?
 1. Well, that is a very big hypothetical. Yes I do believe that there can be just wars. But, you are talking to somebody who opposed Vietnam, who voted against the first Gulf War, who voted against the War in Iraq and who believes the United States has been far far too aggressive militarily in the last many years. We have got to work with the international community not only in trying to create peaceful resolutions to conflict, but to address the underlying causes of war. This is not easy stuff. But that is the direction in which we have to move. Mr. Sanders, I'm a big fan of futurology and I am a moderator of the subreddit /r/futurology. 

What do you think will have to be done regarding massive unemployment due to automation permanently killing jobs with no fault on the people losing these jobs? [This video is the best one discussing these issues.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Pq-S557XQU) Very important question. There is no question but that automation and robotics reduce the number of workers needed to produce products. On the other hand, there is a massive amount of work that needs to be done in this country. Our infrastructure is crumbling and we can create millions of decent-paying jobs rebuilding our roads, bridges, rail system, airports, levees, dams, etc. Further, we have enormous shortages in terms of highly-qualified pre-school educators and teachers. We need more doctors, nurses, dentists and medical personnel if we are going to provide high-quality care to all of our people. But, in direct response to the question, increased productivity should not punish the average worker, which is why we have to move toward universal health care, making higher education available to all, a social safety net which is strong and a tax system which is progressive. As a soon-to-be defending doctoral student in biophysics I am increasingly concerned about the state of scientific research in the U.S. How do you intend to improve funding security for research labs and keep our research competitive with the rest of the world? Do you have any specific plans for NIH and NSF budgets?

Additionally, poor understanding of science among the general population is impairing our ability to pass essential environmental legislation and provide accurate science education in schools. What will you do to improve scientific literacy in this country? As the ranking member of the Senate Budget Committee, I share your concern very deeply. The recently-passed Republican budget makes massive cuts in almost every governmental agency, including those engaged in our scientific research. This is a disaster. If we are going to address the major health issues facing our society -- Alzheimer's, diabetes, cancer, etc. -- we need to invest more in research and develop the best research centers in the world. [In 2014 you expressed that the decriminalisation of recreational marijuana use is not a major issue](http://time.com/13328/bernie-sanders-hillary-clinton-2016/), but also added that you would look into it.

The freedom to alter ones own state of consciousness, whilst doing no harm to others, is something that many people deem to be a basic human right.
The prison-industrial complex, and pharmaceutical monopolies that have been erected around prohibition of consciousness altering, pain relieving, but otherwise benign drugs seems to be the epitome of what you stand against.

Id imagine that you have refrained from speaking on this issue for fear of it being used as ammunition by your "opponents, but could you update us on your position regarding the war on drugs?

Thanks!
 Let me just say this -- the state of Vermont voted to decriminalize the possession of small amounts of marijuana and I support that. I have supported the use of medical marijuana. And when I was mayor of Burlington, in a city with a large population, I can tell you very few people were arrested for smoking marijuana. Our police had more important things to do.

Colorado has led the effort toward legalizing marijuana and I'm going to watch very closely to see the pluses and minuses of what they have done. I will have more to say about this issue within the coming months. Hello Senator Sanders,

What is your stance on Universal Basic Income(UBI)? If in favor how do you see the United States progressing towards realizing UBI? If against, what alternatives come to your mind for combating rising inequality and poverty in the United States? So long as you have Republicans in control of the House and the Senate, and so long as you have a Congress dominated by big money, I can guarantee you that the discussion about universal basic income is going to go nowhere in a hurry. But, if we can develop a strong grassroots movement which says that every man, woman and child in this country is entitled to a minimum standard of living -- is entitled to health care, is entitled to education, is entitled to housing -- then we can succeed. We are living in the richest country in the history of the world, yet we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country and millions of people are struggling to put food on the table. It is my absolute conviction that everyone in this country deserves a minimum standard of living and we've got to go forward in the fight to make that happen. Do you think that wiretapping of American citizens is necessary for security of America and Americans? I voted against the USA Patriot Act and voted against reauthorizing the USA Patriot Act. Obviously, terrorism is a serious threat to this country and we must do everything that we can to prevent attacks here and around the world. I believe strongly that we can protect our people without undermining our constitutional rights and I worry very very much about the huge attacks on privacy that we have seen in recent years -- both from the government and from the private sector. I worry that we are moving toward an Orwellian society and this is something I will oppose as vigorously as I can. Good Evening Senator Sanders,

 

Firstly, let me thank you for doing this AMA.  As a Vermonter, I greatly appreciate your willingness to get in touch with your constituents and allow us to ask you questions about the current issues facing our government.  I appreciate your government service and I feel like you have done a great job of representing the ideas that Vermonters would like to see reflected in our government (and on a personal note as a veteran, I would like to thank you for your work on the Veterans Affairs committee).

 

However I would like to speak with you today regarding the push to label GMO food within the United States.  I would like to ask, why you support this movement (which is primarily based in the assumption that GMO foods are more dangerous than non GMO food) when almost all major scientific and academic communities are in agreement that GMO food poses zero health risks?  (Sources cited at bottom)  To me, this seems analogous to other politicians claiming that global climate change isnt real despite the overwhelming scientific evidence to the contrary.  Thank you for your time and keep up the good work Senator Sanders.

[General scientific consensus](http://www.geneticliteracyproject.org/2013/10/08/with-2000-global-studies-confirming-safety-gm-foods-among-most-analyzed-subject-in-science/#.UsjKlbSFctE) 

[A statement from The National Academy of Science assessment of GMO safety](http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?isbn=0309092094)

[A statement from The American Association for the Advancement of Science's statement](http://www.isb.vt.edu/news/2013/Mar/AAASBoard.pdf)

[A statement from the American Medical Association](http://gmopundit.blogspot.com/2012/06/american-medical-association-opposes.html)

[A statement from the very anti-GMO European Commission saying GMOs are safe](http://www.euractiv.com/innovation-enterprise/commission-science-supremo-endor-news-514072)

[A statement from the Royal Society of Medicine](http://jrs.sagepub.com/content/101/6/290.full)
  I respectfully disagree. It is not my view, nor have I suggested, that GMO food causes health problems. What I have said is that the people of our country, as well as people around the world, have the right to make choices in terms of what they eat and have the right to have labels telling them whether or not food is made with GMOs. As you know, GMO labeling exists in dozens of countries and the state legislature in Vermont also passed a bill requiring that. I support that effort. What is your opinion about possible US ground military operation in the Middle East against ISIS or Bashar Asad in Syria? I voted against the war in Iraq and I voted against the first Gulf War. I am strongly opposed to sending American combat troops into Iraq and Syria. At the end of the day, the war against ISIS will only be won when the Muslim countries in the area fully engage and defeat ISIS and other groups that are distorting what Islam is supposed to be about. The United States and other western countries should be supportive of the efforts of those governments, but cannot lead them. The nightmare, which I believe a number of Republicans want to see, is perpetual warfare in the quagmire of the Middle East. As the longest serving independent in congress, what are your thoughts about electoral reform in the United States? Would you support a single transferable voting system for congress that would allow smaller parties to compete? And what are your thoughts on reforming (or doing away with altogether) the Electoral College? The major issue in terms of our electoral system is truly campaign finance reform. Right now, we are at a moment in history where the Koch brothers and other billionaires are in the process of buying politicians and elections. We need to overturn Citizens United with a constitutional amendment. We need to pass disclosure legislation. We need to move toward public funding of elections. We also have got to see an increased federal role in the outrageous gerrymandering that Republican states have created and in voter suppression. These are the main issues that I'll be tackling in the coming months. Hello Sen. Sanders,

While I understand your stance on nuclear power is (forgive me for paraphrasing) something along the lines of old reactors are bad, why are we (as taxpayers) spending money to keep them going?, I have not yet found any quotes from you regarding new nuclear energy technology.  Could you give some opinions on emerging nuclear technology, such as reactors with passive safety mechanisms, the ability to consume spent fuel rods from other (pressurized water) plants, and fusion?  Since nuclear power has close to the lowest amount of human deaths per kilowatt hour of electricity generated ( http://www.forbes.com/sites/jamesconca/2012/06/10/energys-deathprint-a-price-always-paid/2/ ) , is it fair to cut all taxpayer funding to developing newer forms of nuclear power while subsidizing others?

For the record I am hopeful that you will win in 2016 regardless of whether or not we see eye to eye on this issue.  Thank you for your time. I believe that climate change is perhaps the most significant planetary crisis that we face and we have got to be extremely bold in transforming our energy system away from fossil fuels and towards energy efficiency and sustainability. The fact is that investing in solar, wind, geothermal and energy efficiency is far more cost-effective than nuclear plants. Further, I do not support more nuclear power plants when we do not know how we get rid of the toxic waste from the ones that already exist. Bernie,

I feel many voters in my age bracket (18-30) will strongly support your campaign. With the exception of first-time voters, many of my peers in this age bracket feel burned by false promises and unrealistic expectations established during President Obama's campaign. 

With this in mind: What, **specifically**, do you feel you can **realistically** accomplish in your first term as President that my age bracket can get excited about? You've been outspoken about supporting a $15 minimum wage, progressive tax reform, single-payer health care, and elimination of higher education tuition fees; do you feel like you have the ability to **realistically** bring one or more of these ambitions to fruition if elected president?

Thank you for taking the time to do this AMA. I look forward to supporting your campaign. The answer is that everything depends upon the kind of strong grassroots movement that we can develop. If we do not have tens of millions of people actively involved in the political process, there is very little that any president can do because of the power of big money over the political and economic process. So what I have said time and time again is that we need a political revolution in this country, which means that 80 percent. of the people vote, not 40 percent, and which means that people demand that Congress represent the middle class and working families of this country and not just the billionaire class. If you win in 2016, what will your first dispositions be? My first effort would be to rally the American people to demand that Congress pass a progressive agenda which reverses the decline of our middle class. We have got to create millions of decent-paying jobs rebuilding our infrastructure, we've got to raise the minimum wage to a living wage, we've got to overturn this disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision and we have to transform our energy system in order to protect us from climate change. If the American people are politically active and demand that Congress act on their behalf, we can accomplish those goals and much more. Hey Bernie, thanks for doing this. Huge fan in the PNW!

[According to Votesmart.org](http://votesmart.org/galaxy/#/Bernie-Sanders-27110/Science-52/positions)
in:

* 2012, you voted to decrease spending on space exploration

* 2000, you voted to decrease funding to NASA

* 1996, you voted to decrease budget for NASA

**What, if anything, has or will convince you to provide more funding to NASA in the future?**

Numerous breakthroughs in recent years and promosing technologies being developed and brought to market have made it obvious that, outer space treaty what it is, [the first trillionaires will be made in space.](http://bigthink.com/think-tank/the-first-trillionaires-will-make-their-fortunes-in-space) Wouldn't it be best if the American People were part of that?   I am supportive of NASA not only because of the excitement of space exploration, but because of all the additional side benefits we receive from research in that area. Sometimes, and frankly I don't remember all of those votes, one is put in a position of having to make very very difficult choices about whether you vote to provide food for hungry kids or health care for people who have none and other programs. But, in general, I do support increasing funding for NASA. What is the most useful thing we can do to benefit your campaign besides donating money? Help us educate and organize and spread the message of what this campaign is about. If every American understood that 99 percent of all new income generated in this county today goes to the top 1 percent, and that the top one-tenth of 1 percent owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90 percent, millions of people would join us in fighting for a political revolution so that Washington represents all of us, not just wealthy campaign contributors. So, as this campaign evolves, we are going to ask you to knock on doors, talk to people, get on the phone and help us transform the American political system. Thanks for your support. Senator Sanders,

I am a transgender US Army Soldier with a decade of service. A recent study revealed that there are approximately 15,500 transgender personnel currently serving in the US Military. Current Department of Defense policies prevent us from serving openly, but the policy is under review.

What are your thoughts regarding transgender rights generally, and open transgender military service specifically?

 As somebody who has consistently voted to end discrimination in all forms -- who voted against DOMA way back in the 1990s -- I will do all that I can to continue our efforts to make this a nondiscriminatory society, whether those being discriminated against are transgender, gay, black or Hispanic. **Senator Sanders, would you consider prison reform, hopefully in a way similar to Norwegian prisons?**

Ive read that you value and respect the methods by which Scandinavian countries run their politics. I am with you on this and I think the Scandinavian countries (and even further, the Nordic countries) have social democracy down near perfect.

Besides the healthcare and education services provided in these countries, would you consider prison reform in the United States? There are articles about Norwegian prisons and their humaneness, and it seems responsible to do what they do. They are designed to treat and prepare the prisoners for re immersion into normal life, they give them a nurturing environment, and they give them time to relax, such as recording studios and sports. A similar or identical method would really set an example for America being a champion of human rights (that it can and should be). 

What do you think of this? Links to some articles are below.

* http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/29/magazine/the-radical-humaneness-of-norways-halden-prison.html
* http://www.theguardian.com/society/2013/feb/25/norwegian-prison-inmates-treated-like-people
* http://content.time.com/time/photogallery/0,29307,1989083,00.html
* http://www.businessinsider.com/why-norways-prison-system-is-so-successful-2014-12
* http://www.businessinsider.com/an-american-warden-visited-a-norwegian-prison--and-he-couldnt-believe-what-he-saw-2014-10
* http://www.vice.com/video/norwegian-prisons Hello Senator Sanders, I have a few different questions for you. First, as a bit of background for my questions: I am a Libertarian who supports your Presidential run.

When I first heard that you were entering the race, I and many others had no idea who you were, despite you being in politics for a significant amount of time. Since joining the race for Presidency, you have become very famous on social media and the internet, but traditional media seems to be largely ignoring you. Combined with this, you don't have the financial backing equal to many others running for the Presidency, and being labeled a "socialist" may scare off many potential voters. How do you specifically plan to overcome these obstacles and become someone that American voters can know and have an informed opinion on? Additionally, I am just 2 months too young to vote in the 2016 Presidential election. What can people like myself do to help support your campaign without being able to vote or contribute much financially?

~~-------------------------------------------~~

If elected, you would be facing a largely stagnant and gridlocked congress, that has been shown to be consistently against your views. Many of your ideas that you propose would actually hurt their ability to get re-elected and make large amounts of money as representatives. How would you overcome this to actually implement new laws, instead of getting stopped by Congress? Additionally, what would you do to ensure this isn't a problem in future years, such as addressing Gerry mandering.

~~-------------------------------------------~~

Finally, I have a question on gun control. I largely agree with every other position you have, but your stance on gun control seems unclear to me. You are rated an F by the NRA, but from what I have read, that is a largely unfair assessment. I am against most forms of gun control and would like you to specifically state your stances on various elements of it, such as psychological/background checks, waiting periods, limitations on magazine capacities, age limits for owning and firing guns, a potential ban on rifles, and finally states' rights in deciding the matter.

I look forward to reading your responses to this AMA, and your position in the coming race. Senator Sanders, thanks for your time. I hope  am not too late.

As a member of our country's armed forces I see on a daily basis a struggle for many military families. While we do receive medical/dental and other valuable benefits, we far too often see those that separate from the armed forces left hanging in limbo as it has been shown through recent VA incidents. Also, aside from that, our country, more specifically our Congress, has been unable to pass a budget thus resulting in sequestration, and that is something many active service members both here at home and abroad are affected by on a daily basis. So my questions are to you:

1. What is your plan to effectively apply better medical and mental health treatment to our veterans, both in and out of the service? 

2. What can we expect from your presidency moving forward regarding the funding of our armed forces?

Thanks for your time, I hope to receive a reply! Mr. Sanders,

I am a 17 year old high school student and am excited to have the opportunity to vote for you in the first election that I have ever been eligible to vote in. I didn't think I would ever find a "perfect candidate" whose views are essentially in line with all of mine, but after reading through your voting records and your stances on various issues, I feel like I have found one in the first election I will ever be voting in. I have signed on to put up lawn signs and make phone calls for you and have been advocating for you strongly on social media and to my friends who will also be voting for the first time in this upcoming election. Many of them hadn't heard of you, but after urging them to look into your policies and voting record, some have come over to your side and pledged to vote for you. 

This brings me to my question. When I spread the word about your campaign to my friends and peers, many of them take a quick glance at your Wikipedia page and cry out "He's a socialist!" I try to explain to them that there is a distinction between democratic socialism and socialism, and that socialism isn't this horrible thing that it has come to be thought of, but because of the negative connotation of the word "Socialism" in this day and age, they refuse to listen. How would you suggest I go about explaining what socialism actually is and why they should encourage it rather than see it as a bad thing? 

Thanks. Bernie Sanders 2016 Senator Sanders, thank you for taking the time to speak with everyone here today.  I have two questions.

**What are your thoughts on eliminating subsidies to the fossil fuel industry and diverting those funds to infrastructure repair/construction?**  There are many who would like to raise the gasoline tax to fund infrastructure repair, but personally I don't see the logic in having the government tax us to make a product more expensive while simultaneously taxing us to make that same product cheaper.  Two fossil fuel subsidies that I believe could be targeted are the [excess of percentage over cost depletion for fuels, which is about $7 billion over 4 years, and expensing of exploration of development costs, which is about $3 billion over 5 years](http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/budget/fy2013/assets/receipts.pdf).  In addition, [eliminating these tax subsidies for fossil fuel production would improve efficiency, raise prices, reduce world output of fossil fuels, help reduce carbon emissions, and reach climate policy goals](http://www.urban.org/UploadedPDF/1001080_tax_expenditures.pdf).

Second, I live in the Tampa Bay area and would love to work for your campaign full-time.  I have a BA in Political Science and a passion for politics, but given the fact that I also consider myself a political independent opportunities to work with campaigns have been essentially nonexistent.  **When do I start?** Senator Sanders,

This question will be buried.  I know it will.  But I have a very important question involving education.  And to be fair, I have been counseled against you by my family, my friends, and most of the conservative people I rub shoulders with.  I myself like to expand my horizons, and am drawing more and more to voting in your favor.  To be honest, despite all the counsel, I like you.  And I've liked what you've stood for.

My question is:  My wife is a teacher.  She is also a huge Hilary fan.  She has been raked over the coals by the education system, specifically with the "it's all who you know, not how well you teach" mentality in bringing strong teachers to the forefront (she's been in the top 1 percent effectiveness in the county for 5 years and still can't move into administration despite a double masters in the field).  

What do you plan on doing differently than Hilary to increase the strength of our education system?  Especially with standardized testing and the proven dysfunction that comes along with it. [deleted] Hi Mr. Sanders,

When Obama first campaigned, he brought a lot of optimism and many voters truly believed that he had good intentions of being a different kind of politician than we had become used to. So, if you win, what will be different that will allow you to get done what is best for the country and not fall in line like other candidates? Hey Bernie. Can you please tell me why you voted the way you did on these issues?   I'm hoping you have a legitimate reason for these votes,  but it would be great to hear it directly from you.

[National Defense Authorization Act or NDAA](https://votesmart.org/bill/17397/46311/27110/national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2014#.VVOR68vD_qA) YES

[DHS Funding](http://votesmart.org/bill/19425/51301/27110/department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-of-2015#.VVOTecvD_qA) YES

[Intelligence Authorization Act](http://votesmart.org/bill/6037/17107/27110/intelligence-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2008) YES

[Iraq and Afghanistan War Funding](http://votesmart.org/bill/6948/20208/27110/iraq-and-afghanistan-war-funding-unemployment-benefits-extension-and-gi-bill) YES

[Proposing a Balanced Budget Amendment to the U.S. Constitution](http://votesmart.org/bill/6948/20208/27110/iraq-and-afghanistan-war-funding-unemployment-benefits-extension-and-gi-bill) NO

[Prohibits the United States From Entering into the United Nations Arms Trade Treaty](http://votesmart.org/bill/16401/43297/27110/prohibits-the-united-states-from-entering-into-the-united-nations-arms-trade-treaty) NO

[Requires Disclosure of Financial Transactions by Executive Branch Employees](http://votesmart.org/bill/14569/38053/27110/requires-disclosure-of-financial-transactions-by-executive-branch-employees) NO

[Reduces Funding for Food Stamps](http://votesmart.org/bill/15318/40315/27110/reduces-funding-for-food-stamps) YES

[Limit Firearm Magazine Capacity ](http://votesmart.org/bill/16585/43809/27110/limits-firearm-magazine-capacity) YES

 [Prohibits the Sale of Assault Weapons](http://votesmart.org/bill/16585/43809/27110/limits-firearm-magazine-capacity) YES

[Prohibits the EPA from Conducting Aerial Surveillance of Agricultural Operations](http://votesmart.org/bill/15532/40805/27110/prohibits-the-epa-from-conducting-aerial-surveillance-of-agricultural-operations) NO

[Cybersecurity Act](http://votesmart.org/bill/15638/41248/27110/cybersecurity-act-of-2012) YES

The vote yes on the NDAA which gives the United States government the right to kill any American citizen,  both in the United States and abroad is what bothers me the most, and is my litmus test for any presidental candidate in 2016
 Hello!  Thanks for doing this AMA, and for all you do in office.  With your presidential bid becoming official I've started to sense some measure of hope returning to this country.  Win or lose, you're doing great things.  Please do keep it up.


There's been a lot of talk lately about your stance on gun control, all of which has been sensationalized to the point of complete confusion.

Can you outline your general views on gun control for us?  Be as specific as you like, I'd just like to get something that hasn't gone through the media's spin factory.

Thanks! Two of your major goals are to revamp our nation's infrastructure and fight global warming. I'm a cyclist who commutes to work in a relatively bike friendly city in order to reduce my carbon footprint, but I recognize much of the country lacks the appropriate infrastructure for people to safely and efficiently travel via bicycle.

Would you be willing to include plans for more expansive, protected bike lanes to make cities more bike-friendly or finishing transnational bike paths that already exist in your planned infrastructure bill? It seems to me that doing so would kill two birds with one stone and use an already planned revamp of infrastructure to further reduce our dependence on automobiles.
 [deleted] Senator Sanders, as a Conservative I can say with conviction that I admire your authenticity and dedication to principles, notwithstanding the fact I don't agree with a great deal of your policy proposals. My question to you, sir, is approximately how much money will your spending policies (infrastructure / free tuition, etc.) add to our nation's debt?  Does the potential for increasing our already staggering deficit concern you? Senator Sanders,

I am a 28 year old male and married to the love of my life for almost a year and a half.  I work at a University, attend the University; My wife graduated from college in Germany with very high marks, and her Bachelor Thesis will be published in a Journal next month.  We have been dealing with the USCIS as well as the NVC for well over a year at this point.  I make more than double the poverty limit, we are both educated individuals who will never take anything from the community we cannot give back.  Currently, we are both living with our parents, money saved, and she is working at a restaurant/hotel until this whole, long, tiresome immigration process is done.  Her skills are not only going to waste in Germany, but what she can bring to the USA is being wasted as well.  She has a dream; to start a business here doing positive things for our communities.  My question is this --- What can you do to help reduce the amount of time it takes for this process?  We feel like it is simply an outlandish amount of time, and quite frankly it's not fair that some people have immigrated to the US illegally and have been forgiven for it, and it takes us 16+ months at this point and we are still waiting for the NVC to review our documents.  I am not against people immigrating to the USA, everyone has the right to feel safe and secure, and if the USA gives better opportunities I welcome people from around the world with open arms.  I'm not asking about big immigration reform, I'm asking about simply reducing processing times at the USCIS and NVC in order to make it more efficient to get loved ones into the US.  I hope I am not too late in this AMA because I am very curious to how you feel about the USCIS/NVC processing times and what you could do.  

I support you on many levels, but this is one of the biggest issues that have an impact on my life right now.  (obviously I'm concerned with campaign finance reform but I know where you stand on that)

Thanks for doing this AMA.  Many, many, many people appreciate it. Mr. Sanders,

As a US Marine, I love this nation of ours and I love serving it, but as the years pass I find myself more and more disillusioned by the lip service of politicians saying that they "Support Our Troops." Specifically, seeing bloated spending projects like the [Littoral Combat Ship](http://www.defenseone.com/ideas/2014/08/its-time-sink-lcs/92378/) and the [F-35](http://www.npr.org/2014/07/15/331751387/bloated-in-budget-and-absent-at-airshow-f-35-charts-a-troubled-course) continuously funded, while Commissaries, On Base Services (gyms, wood shops, etc), and base pay (annual increases that don't match inflation) get cut back. As a Marine I pride myself on being the best, while getting the least amount of resources, but this is getting ridiculous.
Mr. Sanders, what will you do to help alleviate some of these issues?    **Why are you guys buying Senator Bernie Sanders reddit gold? Why not consider donating that few bucks to his campaign? It's far more meaningful and useful.**   

Lol, smart ass gold. First time I've seen that.  

Hello Senator Sanders! Welcome back to Reddit! I'm so excited you are running for president and I can't wait to help out in any way I can! Just a few questions that I was wondering about.


1. We have seen the budget continue to go down in recent years and I feel that if this budget issue isn't addressed soon, NASA will not have the resources it needs to complete its current goals involving us exploring outward into space. What is your stance on NASA's budget and the continued exploration of our solar system from the Moon to Europa to Mars?


2. What is your opinion the possibility on an independent Kurdistan in the middle east? Do you support it, oppose it or are generally indifferent as in now about it?


3. Do you have plans to reach out to many farmers and lower wage people who might be normally considered Republican in regions such as Alabama, Louisiana, Kansas and the like? There are many people out there who would greatly benefit from your stances, such as farmers and the like, who I think you could definitely get support from if you visited these communities and spoke with them.


4. Lastly, I thought it would be nice to end on a lighter note. I've followed you for a few months now and I've loved so many of your policies, especially the 12 Initiatives (or Common Sense as I like to call it). But I was hoping to learn a little bit more about Bernie the person. What are 3 things about you that people don't know about? It could be favorite movie, childhood memory, anything.


Thank you so much for doing this AMA! Best of luck on the trail and let's win this election! :)


 Senator Sanders, is there anything you'd like to say further regarding your stances on gun control? As seen [here](http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/jurisprudence/2015/05/bernie_sanders_on_guns_vermont_independent_voted_against_gun_control_for.html), you're being called a "gun nut" by some, yet the NRA has given you an F rating for being pro-gun control. Where do you stand? Also, thanks for everything you've already done! As president, what would you do to curb the NSA's invasion of everyone's privacy?

And what is your opinion of Edward Snowden's actions? Would you have him tried in court, or pardon him?

Edit: question mark Violent crime, especially that involving the use of firearms, is at decades-low levels, yet we continue to hear from the Democratic Party and some Republicans nothing but doom and gloom and bloodshed on American streets with regards to civilian firearms ownership. This leads to do-nothing, feel-good bills that only serve the agendas of people who quite simply hate the concept of civilian firearms ownership, based on faulty, intentionally skewed, or downright false information and completely arbitrary concepts (this rifle round = cop-slaying WMD, this nearly identical rifle round a few grains lighter = perfectly safe). These mindsets and bills are ludicrous, have been proven to not affect actual crime whatsoever, and only punish those who are law-abiding gun owners in the first place. 

Without resorting to the nearly universal wishy-washy (tough on crime, make streets safer but committed to 2nd amendment) form response, **can you please give your stance on the concept of "gun control", the 2nd amendment and what you would do to put an end to this type of endless, abrasive legislation?** [deleted] You have called the war on drugs a failure. Do you think legalizing marijuana is part of the solution? And regardless of your own personal opinion on legalization, if elected president would you respect the laws of states that do end prohibition, or would you send in the DEA to enforce federal law? Hi Bernie,

I would just like to start by saying that you are my absolute favorite person in politics by a mile. I've been a supporter since I first became interested in politics in junior high.

That being said, my question is about your views on foreign policy, specifically, what are your views on the Israel-Palestine conflict? It seems like you haven't really elucidated your stance on this topic, and I would really love for you to clarify your stance on Israel-Palestine. I'm hopeful that you won't avoid answering this tough question, since I know you've answered so many difficult questions over the years.

Cheers, Bernie, and good luck in 2016.  Hi Bernie,

I am an economist and both on reddit and in person when discussing your choice of chief economist my colleagues and I are fairly mystified why your choice was from the heterodox rather then mainstream. What about Stephanie Kelton's work made her stand out for you? Are you concerned that choosing someone who fundamentally disagrees with the last 90 years of empirical work on monetary economics may harm your credibility with those who are familiar with the literature &amp; consensus?

Thanks! As president, you'll have to work with many Republicans in power. What are your views on political compromise? This response is taken from another comment he's made in this thread:

&gt;I believe I have been consistent throughout my political life in terms of my basic values and what I stand for. Obviously, when you are a United States senator working in a conservative environment, you often have to do the best that you can within the circumstances that you find yourself. Two particular examples: last year, I helped write the most comprehensive veterans legislation passed in many years. Trust me, I had to change my position on very important aspects of veterans' health care in order to get it passed. In terms of health care, I am an advocate of a Medicare-for-all single-payer program. I voted for the Affordable Care Act, not because I think it is the end place as to where we should be, but because I was able to get a major provision in it that greatly expanded primary health care -- which is helping many millions of people today. So the bottom line is that you have to stick by your values but when you're in an elected position, especially when you're in a conservative Congress, now and then you're going to have to compromise.

[source](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/36j690/i_am_senator_bernie_sanders_democratic_candidate/cref8qm) Over a few hours I watched the upvotes for this thread decline from nearly 10k to 4.5k. Any idea how? Will you vow to filibuster the Patriot Act reauthorization in the Senate this week, including attempts to extend it via the so-called 'USA Freedom Act'?  Do you think that you being a non-Christian will be a big deal in your upcoming election? Has this been an issue in past elections? Not Bernie Sanders, but I don't think anti-Semitism is that much more common than sexism in the US, and thus do not see a Jew that much less likely to get elected than a woman. Yes, that may be,  but the population of Jews in the United States us much smaller than women. I'm not saying that no one besides Jews will vote for a Jewish candidate and no one besides women will will vote for a female candidate, but there is much less influence towards a female candidate than a Jewish one. I don't know if you get what I'm driving at, but yeah.  Bernie, what was it like to have your two nephews drag you around while you were asleep when they visited for the weekend? What changes will you make as president to deal with the issue of standardized testing in schools? Is it morally and legally acceptable to use drones against so-called enemies of America (including citizens of our country)? If you get elected president, what is your plan for NASA? This was answered here: 

http://np.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/36j690/i_am_senator_bernie_sanders_democratic_candidate/crefi55 And not just space exploration, but also the vital role they play in monitoring climate conditions. Not only that but how will you convince others to align with your plan?  If President, what actions will you take in the Israeli/Palestinian conflict? What is Your opinion about foreign policy of Nobel Prize Winner Barack Obama? How would You estimate situation in Libya, Syria and Egypt after Arab Spring? Do You think that killing Gaddafi and overthrow of Mubarak was necessary? Is rapprochement with Cuba positive for United States? What do you think of the idea of replacing welfare and social security with basic income? How should we deal with Russia? Who are we: strategic allies with current problems or simply enemies? Hello Senator Sanders! Thank you for doing this AMA. How do you plan on implementing a $15/hour minimum wage? What steps will assure the success of small businesses while also supporting the people that work for them? Thank you! Hey Dolph, in Showdown in Little Tokyo, when you were eating sushi off those naked ladies, was that real? Yeah. I think both the sushi and the ladies were real, as far as I imagine! *Ha ha ha!* This was the 80's, where you could do different things in the movies than today! This was the 80's, where you could do different things ~~in the movies~~ than today! You mean lots of coke? I don't think many got your workaholics reference, but I did! Hi Dolph. I'm curious as to what led you to getting your masters in chemical engineering?  Was it a decision between chemical and something else? thank you! My dad was an engineer, he was an electrical engineer, and my older brother was a chemical engineer, so that's why I pursued engineering, even though my original plan was to be a doctor. But I got into medical school, and there was a HUGE backlog, you had to wait a year to begin studying, so that's why I went into chemical engineering.  He's like a scientist.. That fights crime. Also he can *smell* crime.  "Crime stinks.. The smell of penetration" The Nose knows.  Thanks for answering! In what ways did the action genre changed since the eighties in your
opinion? Well, the technical innovations of CGI and wire-work has changed it a lot. Because now you can make almost anything happen onscreen and it looks totally real. So the performer doesn't necessarily need the skills that you needed in the '80s. You don't have to be able to fight, or jump, or run, because you'll have a double, or they'll figure out a way to make it look like you're doing it, which opens up the action genre to really good *actors* who maybe aren't as physical. They're trained, but they're not professional athletes or fighters like we used to be. We had to have very, very good skills because there was no way to make it happen after you shot the scene, it had to happen in front of the camera. This is why now, if you win an Academy Award, you can become an action movie actor - or at least give it a really good shot! Then you can go straight into the Marvel movies. And if you have to do action, there's a way to make it look real. I think it's great, opens it up to more people.  That does it. I'm totally having an all-80's action movie marathon.

 right? this has given me a brand new appreciation for, what I thought were, cheesy 80's action flicks!  blood sport by van damme If you had actually fought Sylvester Stallone and Carl Weathers when *Rocky IV* was being filmed, who would have won? Who would win if you fought now? *Ha ha ha!*

Well, I guess I'd have a pretty good shot at both chances.

You know, boxing, a lot of it is about how hard you can hit. So I guess I have an advantage over both those guys. I mean, for *actors* they're pretty good. But I'd bet my money on myself for that fight.  This is the greatest answer possible.

&gt; I mean, for *actors* they're pretty good.

This is why I was rooting for Drago haha.  That, and the fact that you're a pinko bastard. I hope *The Americans* makes it to 1985 so we can watch Phillip and Elizabeth rooting for Drago. But it aint about how hard you hit. Its about how hard you can get hit and keep moving forward; how much you can take and keep moving forward.

Edit: What the fuck do i do with this shit That's not what I saw on PPV... Its about how hard you can hug the other guy... Moving forward [into another man's arms] ## Thats how winning is done! Didn't you hit Sylvester Stallone so hard during Rocky IV that his heart hit his rib cage and started to swell resulting in him spending several days in the ICU? I don't know anything about that, but [Earnie Shavers](http://www.fightsaga.com/news/item/5149-Sylvester-Stallone-Knocked-out-by-Earnie-Shavers-in-Rocky-3-audition) did a number on him before Rocky 3. Great link
&gt;I give him a little one under the ribs, where the livers of boxers are. Don't know about actors. If they got livers, they probably are in the same place. Anyway, Mr. Stallone called time -- he didn't say nothing, just kinda doubled over a little bit and sort of just waved his hand -- and then somebody helped him out of the ring, and to this bathroom or somewhere, and he sent word out later that they couldn't use me. &gt;Heavyweight tough man Randall "Tex" Cobb, known for his ability to absorb punishment in the ring, once stated, "Earnie could punch you in the neck with his right hand and break your ankle."

And a 44-2 record with 3 knockouts, apparently.

Dang. There's a story that I believe Sylvester tells where he said he'd trained for years, felt he'd be a pretty decent pro if he went for it. he wanted a particular shot to look REALLY good so asked Dolph to hit him for real. Dolph apparently didn't want to do it, but Sly convinced him. Apparently he hit him so hard he went sailing across the ring and was knocked out for a good period of time.

Not sure how true it is, something i read somewhere. I think this is it:

&gt;Stallone was quoted about that incident as saying, 'Dolph and I always went for it. I gave him orders to try to knock me out while the cameras were rolling. At one point, he hit me so hard on the head I felt my spine compress. He then hit me with an almighty uppercut.



&gt;That night my chest started to swell, and I had to be helicopter-ambulanced from my hotel to a nearby emergency room. I was told that Dolph had punched my rib cage into my chest, compressing my heart. If it had swollen any more, I would have died. After that, I was like, Dolph, it's only a movie, bro."'  &gt;Dolph, it's only a movie, bro.

"Yeah let's make this real!"

*fwap*

"Yeah. About that keeping it real thang..." &gt; Dolph, it's only a movie, bro."'

"Sly, it was just a prank, bro!" Hit him so hard, he's going to talk with a straight mouth in the next Rocky. Hey Dolph, which Martial Art would you suggest is the best to study?  Well, the most important thing with martial arts is a good reputable school. When you walk in, it's clean, they have good manners, they are not loud, or overbearing, or cocky - all of those attitudes, you may think signify somebody's tough, but it usually signifies that somebody's a coward. The *real* Martial Arts are very quiet and very well-behaved. That's what you should look for, first.

And then you should look around at styles. But if you have a good vibe, it should be something that feels positive. When you get a positive feeling when you walk in - you should feel *constructive,* not disruptive.

 FYI this is also good advice for picking a brothel. Hi, Dolph! What was it like to be a part of the James Bond franchise as one of your very first roles? It was interesting. I mean, it was overwhelming - first I was in the Bond Movie set, it was very impressive. I remember they shot at the Eiffel Tower, and in those days, you could just rent the Eiffel Tower for 2 days, close it down and shoot a movie, I don't think you can do that anymore. And I met Roger Moore, and a few other people. And I played a small role, literally 2 minutes I was gone, but that got me a little taste of the whole show business experience, in and around the set.  Do you have any funny story from filming Dark Angel (I 
Come in Piece)? Yeah, that was shot in Houston, Texas. And you know, it was a fun movie. It has these big aliens in it - and this was before CGI - so they had to make it all happen in-camera. They had these two big guys - one is an East German Olympic champion, Decathlon, and he's the BIGGEST guy I've ever fought. He was so athletic. They blew up like 10 cars in the parking lot, and he jumped from one roof of a car to the next, with explosions chasing him. Now that would be CGI, but back then, it was real - and they only had *one* shot! A real shot. Running for his life, with explosives chasing him, one car blowing up after another, and he jumped into water at the end. He did those stunts. I couldn't believe it.  Still to this day after hearing the words "I come in peace" I follow it with "And you go in pieces, asshole." Honestly, of all the B-level Sci-Fi that's ever been made, that might be the most bad ass line uttered.  I will forgive their casting of Brian Benben everytime for that line alone (he was good on HBO, he was not a convincing cop). [if this is the scene](https://youtu.be/iSwNqTzwFvA?t=1m15s) @1:15 then holy shit. One take, running over cars exploding two steps behind him.... Wow.. Dude.... The past future is way better than the future future! Have the guys from *It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia* reached out to you yet? You know, yeah, they did.

And I think they included me, or my picture, or something in a clip of one of their episodes. But I haven't been on the show yet.

I was on WORKAHOLICS and some other shows.

But I haven't seen that Philadelphia show. But I guess there's some character named after me or something?

I'd love to be on it. Let's hope so.  Are you willing to play a scientist who's head is a giant nose and you can smell crime? The real question should be is he willing to do full penetration? And I'm talking about a lot! It'll be something like:  
He'll come back to the lab from fighting crime. Then full penetration. Then crime fighting. Full penetration. Crime fighting. Full penetration. And this will go on for about 90 minutes and then the movie is just going to... end. This reference was one of my two reason for checking out this AMA, and also Dolph is amazing!!! Watch the Rocky movie Dolph is in. He only said three words and won every academy award for the next eight years because of them.

Unless you haven't seen the first ones, watch the those first, because Dolph wrecks some major plotlines like a badass I think audiences are going to be very uncomfortable seeing Dolph Lundgren's naked penis going into this young girl that you're talking about. From behind, 69, anal, vaginal, cowgirl, reverse cowgirl. All the hits, all the big ones, all the good ones. What percentage of canine is he willing to portray?  Don't forget the mesh tank top A super sexy scientist who's name is Dolph Lungren! I hope you are alright with full penetration then If you do get a chance to watch always sunny in Philadelphia, watch a Charlie centered episode, he's the best I always introduce CharDee McDennis to people who havent seen it Its all about the D.E.N.N.I.S System for first timers Frank's Intervention is my preference, it's so shocking so fast Beer burp fountain changed my life. "Ohhh ohh where did you come from?!" "Frank. I've been walking next to you this whole time"  This might be my absolute favorite scene from It's Always Sunny. The Gang Wrestles for the Troops STOMP CLAP. STOMP CLAP. STOMP STOMP CLAP. STOMP CLAP.  The Gang Has an Intervention is my personal go to for first timers I love how they chant INTERVENTION and start ganging up on someone else every couple of minutes.

INTERVENTION! INTERVENTION! INTERVENTION! 

And then charlie's casual, "guys guys intervention intervention" to try to have the gang listen to him xD Who Got Dee Pregnant is a good one as well.  I lose it every time that ostrich walks into the bathroom.  Every.  Time. I think that's the funniest thing the show's ever done, but you really need the buildup of years of everyone calling her a bird. "Sweet Dee is Dating a Retarded Person" is my go to, with "Sweet Dee has a Heart Attack" coming in a close second. "There is no way I'm dating a retarded person."

Title card: "*Sweet Dee's Dating a Retarded Person*" The title cards are often the funniest joke delivery in the episode.

Frank: "What could possibly go wrong?"

Title Card: Frank Sets Sweet Dee on Fire "Don't worry about us, Mac. We'll be just fine."

Title card: "*Dennis and Dee Go on Welfare*" I use The Nightman Cometh. AaaaaaAAAAaaaaa Champion of the sun!! Dayman! AaaaAAAAaaaa! "To the Game of Games!" To do a cameo as a brilliant mesh tanktop-clad scientist who can smell crime? What is the best advice you've ever received?  Oh gosh.

I've received a LOT of advice.

But in the business - I heard Clint Eastwood, who's 85 years old, who's had the biggest grossing movie in America, AMERICAN SNIPER, he started out as an action guy, a cowboy, and when he was about my age, he kinda started moving over to directing - his advice was "Keep playing your OWN game."

Meaning - yeah you can listen to other people, but do what YOU feel is right, and your destiny will catch up with you.

Don't chase it.  &gt;"Keep playing your OWN game."

Did anyone ***not*** read that in Clint Eastwood's voice? Have you returned to break reddit [again](http://imgur.com/giSzA0D)? *I guess I must break you...I guess I must break reddit?* I don't want to break it. I'm having fun chatting with fans. I wanna keep it going! He will break you. He doesn't know his own strength Do you have any real close celebrity friends? Do you ever speak to Grace Jones anymore? I don't have that many celebrity friends any more. I think the closest one I have is Stallone, and Schwarzenegger, and I'm pretty close with Statham and Snipes. And... um... some of the other EXPENDABLES, Mickey Rourke, we got pretty close. I haven't talked to Grace Jones for a while. Last time I saw her musta been in Cannes, a few years ago. But since I'm in New York, I'm thinking of giving her a call, at least talking to her.  Oh, just all of the biggest action stars ever. You're right, not many celebrity friends... 

Reddit, bringing people together &lt;3  Hey Dolph, Masters of The Universe was my favorite movie growing up, my question is how great was Frank as Skeletor and how heavy was the Power Sword ? That guy OWNED that Skeletor role. Fucking owned it.  I remember when that movie came out and adults were complaining about how different it felt from the cartoons. To 8 year old me though that movie was a fucking masterpiece and I'm pretty sure I was part of the target audience. That movie is criminally underrated.  I was never big on the He-Man cartoons as a kid (I always thought they felt cheap), but that movie was the shit. Not to mention Tom Paris going back in time fighting to save Earth.   Why have you not starred in a live action Duke Nukem movie? They're making one now, it just takes 15 years to film it. Seriously.  He IS the Duke. Hey Dolph! How am I hanging?

edit: I received gold for a dick joke two years in the making?! Thank you so much! Hahaha! To the left! Hahaha! Thanks Dolph! You're amazing!

Best day of my life!!!! I can imagine Victoria saying to him "Well, your penis has an interesting question."

 She probably did have to read the user name to him so he would get the joke. That means she said the phrase "Dolph Lundgren's penis."

*Nice*  I'm sure Dolph Lundgren's penis has had far better days then this He just made you shift to the left, didn't he? When Dolph tells you your junk is to the left, you don't ask questions. I can just imagine Victoria explaining the joke to Dolph. "A user called, uhhh, DolphLundgrens... (Facepalms) Penis asked 'how am i hanging?'" He thought it was hilarious, for what it's worth! Dolph has a great sense of humor.  I love the fact that there's this much interaction between celebrities and their fans, and you're just helping this so much. Thanks again :D Beautiful. I think Dolph just Canseco'd the AMA... Two years worth waiting. You have now lived an accomplished life You waited a long time for this and it was totally worth it. I missed the last AMA, I wasn't going to let that happen again! I'm glad I witnessed this moment. Hi, Mr. Lundgren! Im a huge fan! Rocky IV, The Punisher, and Masters of the Universe defined my childhood. I just had a few questions:


Ive read that youve worked for many years to bring Skin Trade to fruition. How important is this movie to you and to bringing more awareness to the rampant human trafficking going on in the world today?



Were you a fan of the Punisher or He-Man before you took those roles? 



How much fun was it to yell I have the power!? 



Has anyone ever yelled DRAGOOOOOOO!!! to you or around you?



How long have you been playing the drums?



Thank you so much for all the childhood memories and for letting Sylvester Stallone beat you to end communism, since we all know theres no way he could have legitimately won. ;)
 Well, thank you.

The cause of human trafficking, which is portrayed in SKIN TRADE, is very important to me. After working on this movie for more than a year, I'm now involved with an organization called CAST - Coalition to Abolish Slavery and Trafficking. And the film has been a good experience. I feel good that it's being released. But the cause itself is even *more* important to me.

You know, I hadn't read THE PUNISHER comic. I knew a little bit about He-Man because I'd seen the cartoons. But you know, back in the day, playing a toy was considered a very risky decision that could jeopardize your career. But now, it's a big thing to be a superhero, from a  comic book. But back then, it wasn't like that. I am glad I did both those roles. It turns out that people liked those m movies.

Hahaha. It was alright. I think I was thinking of going home and taking a shower after fighting the bad guy in the movie. They smeared me with like 2 pounds of Vaseline every day. It got hot.

I did it once, hahaha! Or maybe a few times!

You know, I started playing drums when I was about 10 years old. And I played them on and off. And then I shot a movie called COMMAND PERFORMANCE, where I played the drums, and I really enjoyed it. So hopefully I can play more drums in the future.

Hahaha! Well, thank you. It was a pretty good script, and he won at the end. And Rocky won at the end. You can't go to Russia and lose, so...  Hi Dolph! Thanks for coming! I was wondering, what is your favorite book? I read a lot. I read a lot of history. I read a really good one, just finished it, called TEAM OF RIVALS, about Lincoln. It's about how he threw his cabinet together after the election, and how he rose from being a backwoods lawyer whom nobody knew to one of the most famous historical lawyers in not only American history, but WORLD history, and it all happened in 5 years.

He was unknown in 1860. But by 1865, he became a major historical figure forever and ever. Which is just amazing, the way it happened.  *Team of Rivals* is spectacular. May I also recommend John Fabian Witt's *Lincoln's Code: The Laws of War in American History* or Sven Beckert's *Empire of Cotton: A Global History*?

Thanks for answering! Greetings Mr. Lundgren,

Being a very accomplished Kyokushin fighter, what do you think about the state of martial arts today and what is your opinion of MMA?


-David C.

I am a huge admirer of your work on and off screen. Thank you for your time.
 Thank you.

Well, I think that martial arts are still alive and well.

It's different today, because people have a lot of other things that compete with martial arts - like gym classes, aerobics, Zumba, you know, the... what do you call it... all of these special workout CDs on the internet. So I think it's more difficult to keep your focus today.

But there are some good martial artists, both in MMA and in K-1 as well.

And there's also another league called Glory -  Glory fights are tonight, everyone!!! Free on SpikeTV at 11pm PDT.

Check them out.

Edit: Also available at 8pm PDT for $9.99, if you want to watch them live. Thanks, HandjobFromADrifter! I will set the DVR from my phone now before i forget.  
&gt;all of these special workout CDs on the internet.

Keeping with the times, I see. 

PS. Frlt att jag skojar lite. Tack Dolph, du har varit en frebild!  What's your favourite movie/quote featuring Arnold Schwarzenegger? I think probably - I like Conan, the first Conan.  How was it working with Keanu Reeves?
 It was really cool.

I worked with him before he did SPEED, so it was before he was an action star. But we did an action movie together called JOHNNY MNEMONIC. I played a crazy preacher. He was a really cool guy. He seemed really humble and nice. I enjoyed working with him.  I loved JOHNNY MNEMONIC! I quote the room service speech whenever i've had a rough day. No one gets it though. How was it killing Henry Rollins tho? I bet that was a good laugh :) Henry Rollins quite possibly had the most bad ass line of the film in the scene where the Preacher is trying to get information from him, "Yeah, isn't he the guy ..... WHO FUCKS YOUR MOTHER?"  my favorite thing you ever did - that assassin preacher was a brilliant performance, you brought humor to it and did true character work ... would love to see that character again Hi Dolph!  Who would be the ultimate victor if all of the characters you've played got into a fist fight? *Ha ha ha ha ha!*

Shit! I'd be a mess. A lot of blood around.

Let's see...it would be messy, yeah. The preacher in JOHNNY MNEMONIC would probably win. But then you have He-Man, with the sword. I think the preacher is so driven, he had such inner fire and conviction, maybe he would win in the fight! Hi Dolph! What is the most funny story from The Expendables you can remember? Wow, there are a lot of funny stories.

I think that - it was funny. The first scene that I did, in EXPENDABLES 1, was with Stallone. In the garage. And it was the first time I'd worked with him in 25 years.

And I'd take off the medallion, I hand it to him, because I got fired. And when I gave it to him, I decided to push him a little bit. And the crew thought I was fighting him, like in Rocky! The people in the crew didn't know me, they thought it was the staredown from ROCKY 4. And when the scene was over, he turned to me and said "***Push me harder next time."***

And that kind of sums up our onscreen relationship.  Hi, Dolph. Thank you for all the childhood memories. Do you know anything about the Masters of the Universe 2 that was planned by Cannon Films but was eventualy aborted because of the high licences fees?
 You know, I didn't hear about that. I think Cannon had financial difficulties when MASTERS 1 came out. All I've heard is that they're planning a sequel now, for the past few years, a remake rather, of MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE. It'll get made sooner or later, I'm pretty sure, because it's one of those beloved franchises. And it'll get a modern adaptation. I met the writer in LA, I guess he wanted me to be in the new one somehow. I dunno, maybe I could play He-Man's uncle or something.  I'm thinking Man-At-Arms. Why not just King Randor? Mr. Lundgren, what's the story behind this video of you singing Elvis' A Little Less Conversation, dancing, playing a drum solo, and doing martial arts? It's beyond awesome: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9wBq3wPBOXc

Also, GREAT interview with Creative Screenwriting the other day. It was nice to read an interview with you that wasn't just about Rocky IV or Universal Soldier and really explored your current work! Thanks.

Well, I hosted the Swedish version of - it's something called the Eurovision Song Contest. It's kind of like Who's Got Talent, the show? And I was the host, and every host usually does a performance. And they were trying to figure out what kind of song I should do, and somebody came up with the idea of Elvis, because he was physical, did some action stuff. And there's a new version of - A Little Less Conversation. And it was fun, I did some singing, chopped some ice, a little dancing, it was cool. But i won't be doing that anytime soon again! My 2 daughters were embarrassed! 

*HA HA HA!*

Embarrassing! Embarrassing!

But it was fun. I enjoyed it. I really did.  Loved watching you on Melodifestivalen! Don't usually like it but you made it entertaining. Thank you! Is it true that you can smell crime?  Some of my characters can... but I try to smell so nobody rips me off!

I've been working on it! *Ha ha ha!* https://youtu.be/5gy0FPF49BI Here's the twist, we show the whole thing. Full penetration. Crime. Penetration. Crime. Penetration. Until the movie just sort of ends. What if his head is just one big nose?? Hi Dolph, 

If you hadn't pursued acting, what would you be doing?  Any career in mind with your training chemical engineering? I guess I'd have to, to pay the bills! I suppose, haha! I would be engineering, or petroleum engineering was my expertise. I suppose I could have a karate studio maybe. Because I used to be a karate instructor. But yeah, one of those two, probably.  Would you have considered a hybrid karate-chemistry studio? Side kick the centrifuge in its fuckin' face to start it spinning. How well do you remember filming The Shooter in Prague? Do you have any story you could share? Yeah! It was right after the fall of Communism. It was a rough city in those days. Beautiful, but I remember that there was not a lot of - my favorite food was the beer and soup, hahaha! Because that's the food that was the best. I remember that. I think we shot right at the Palace of the - what was his name now- the guy who started  the movement that toppled Communism - anyways, we shot there at the palace, on the ROOF of the palace - I'm trying to remember his name now - anyways, I'll remember his name later, but it was a great city.  Hey Dolph.  
  
Could you tell us more about *Hail, Caesar*? How is it to work with the Coens after working mostly with directors who are specialized in action films? You know, it was a really wonderful experience to work with directors who are very much into the character. Every shot is very important to them. Every word. Every nuance. And even though we only worked for 2 days, it was fun to work with Channing Tatum, it was interesting to meet him, and my daughters are fans of his - I guess he was a bit of a ROCKY fan, so it worked out well. And I think it'll be a good film.  What was it like to be on The Eric Andre Show? Did you know what you were getting into, or were you surprised by how bizarre it truly was?  What was your favorite place to shoot a film and why? Well, I think there's 2 good places I can think of. I have never shot a movie in New York, no. I never have. I like shooting in Los Angeles, because then I can stay in home! And the most beautiful was for a movie called MAN OF WAR, which we shot in Thailand - every morning, we'd get up and travel on 10 big boats at sunrise, and on breaks we would go swim in the ocean. It was like a paid vacation.  [Have you ever heard Rocky IV: The Musical?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dHdpyvayAcw) *Ha ha!*

Rocky the Musical?!?!

No! I know there's a musical in New York... I heard about it, but didn't see it. I think they did a Rocky musical. But I'll have to check out Rocky IV the Musical!

*Ha ha hah ha!*

I hope they can do a good Ivan Drago! I'll play Elvis in Russian shorts! It'll be like a hybrid role.  What did you have for breakfast? I want to grow up big and strong like you *Ha ha ha ha!*

A bottle of tequila. JUST KIDDING!

No, I had an... omelette and some whole-wheat toast. I had some mint tea, and grapefruit juice! Yeah, this morning here in  New York, yeah.  Lifelong fan, Dolph. What can you tell us about working with the late Brandon Lee on Showdown in Little Tokyo? The guy seemed incredibly charasmatic and destined for a good movie career.

I wrote a paper at university about how that flick is one of the few exploring a bisexual man coming to terms with his orientation (Predator 2 is another). Take that as you like. Well, Brandon was a special guy. We became good friends during the shoot of the picture. His mother was Swedish. So he was half-Chinese (because of Bruce Lee, his dad) and his mom was Swedish, and we both were martial artists. And I agree with you - had he lived, he would've become a huge star, maybe even bigger than his dad.

 I actually met you and Brandon on the set for Showdown.  I worked across the street and got a walk on roll for the parade and final fight scene in Long Beach.  I fell in love with movies those three days and have gone on to do a bunch of independent films.  BTW, Red Scorpion is my favorite movie of yours.   Wait what? I haven't seen predator in a long time but who was bi sexual in it?  Yeah, I don't remember Danny Glover chasing a predator and grabbing dick. I think he just threw that one in there to confuse us.
 &gt;(Predator 2 is another). 

I'm a big fan of the Predator movies, would love to see your take on the subject.  Hi. I was surprised by how many films you have acted in, what do you think your body count is? That's a good question.

I don't know.

But I remember on EXPENDABLES 1, one of the British magazines, I think it was LOADED or MAXIM or something, they did a body count for all of the EXPENDABLES stars - Stallone, Schwarzenegger, me, Statham, Jet Li - and it was a body count and a box office record count. And I know I didn't win the box office record, but I did win the body count.

So at least I have something to take to the grave.  [632](http://www.cinemablend.com/new/Lundgren-Out-Kills-Stallone-Body-Count-Infograph-For-The-Expendables-20235.html) [867](http://www.allouttabubblegum.com/main/?p=25) C'mon Terry Crews, Get it together! That's cuz Terry is all about the love! Tiny Terry loves his pickles... Hi Dolph, what was being part of the Expendables cast like? Well, it was a lot of fun. It was an honor to be with some of these guys, like Harrison Ford, Stallone, Arnold, guys I watched when I was younger. And it's also fun to work with Stallone again, because we'd stayed in touch over the years, and it's always fun to work with people you know.  Hi Dolph! What is your favorite type of pie? I think it would be pecan pie with ice cream and whipped cream.

I wish I could have it right now, hahahaha!

Not hot, though, just warm.  Your wardrobe was pretty boss in "One in the Chamber". Did you get to keep it?

For those that don't know, here's one of his [outfits](http://mbadbkweb.famp-art.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/oneinthechamber.jpg) Hi Dolph! Would you ever revisit the Bond franchise in a larger role if asked? Yeah, I think so. I mean, usually they have Europeans in there, doing various things. It's a combination of action and drama that's pretty good. So why not. Yeah! Sure.  How would you describe your overall exeprience on working on "Masters Of The Universe?" It was hard for me, because I was starring in the movie, having to play the bad guy in Rocky, and now playing a hero, and I didn't have a lot of experience. But I did have a lot of fun. Because the subject matter, and the fantasy aspect of the film was very, very strong. So at the time, it was difficult, but now when I look back it was actually a fun experience.  Best scene in that whole movie is where they're eating ribs, and realize it came from an animal.  Hey Dolph, what's your favorite meal? Alright, well, I suppose it would have to be a *really* really good steak, medium, charred on the outside, a baked potato, and maybe some reallyreally great desserts - like I've been working out a lot lately - so some REALLY good apple pie with some ice cream, some red wine. Opus One is a great wine! Hi Mr. Lundgren, 

Thanks for stopping by.  Did you know about this licensed limited Rocky IV poster by Jason Edmiston?  One proudly hangs in my home.  The internet was abuzz when it came out.    
http://imgur.com/bZxNHOz

If I paid for shipping, could I send it to your publicist for you to sign?  Thanks for all the fun movies!   That's a rock nipple. The mods can verify this is indeed Dolph. [deleted] How much time do you set aside per day to sniff out crime?  Well, you know, I'm not a cop. I work against human trafficking. I do something every day with this CAST organization. I'm just trying to my best to help save some trafficking victims. That's what I'm doing right now.  I love the fact he is not getting these references. I wonder when hes gonna go back to the lab. What is your stance on this movie pitch from It's always sunny in Philadelphia? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5gy0FPF49BI I once heard people broke into your house, tied up your wife, and then left immediately after seeing a picture of you, is that true? Dolph, showdown in little Tokyo is one if my favorite movies. Would you ever reboot it? Unfortunately without brandon lee.. Yeah, that could be a nice remake, you know? I think without Brandon it'd be tough to find somebody really good in his place. But it was a good story, a pretty exciting movie, and fun to shoot for sure.  You're right though, the chase scene is only like 4 blocks. I know! I've been there lately, as well. It's the movies right?  Hej Dolph!
What's your favourite place in Sweden?  I like the old town in Stockholm, which is an island in the middle of the city, it has a lot of really old buildings, churches, it's such a beautiful place, I could walk there for hours. In fact, I'm going there next week, so I'll see it! Do you have any news about The Expendables 4? You know, I don't have any news. I was pleased that there was a 3, because they did one every other year, for 6 years. So those 3 first ones - it's a lot of work, and it was fun. But I think if there is a fourth one, that it'll happen either next year or the year after.  Hello Dolph!

I'm a Washington State University alum and a huge fan.

Would you ever consider making a trip to Pullman for a game?  Maybe the Apple Cup?

Maybe drop ["I must break you"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ygQvB6OjHOU) while looking at the Husky sideline?

Anyway, I have loved your movies since childhood and thanks for doing this AMA.

**GO COUGS!!!** would you rather fight one Rocky sized duck or 100 duck sized Rockies?  Oh god. I think maybe one Rocky-sized duck. Because 100 is too many. They could hurt you pretty badly. But that one big one? I think I could take him out.  This is the best thing I've read all day. So what ended up happening with Ivan Drago after he lost to Rocky?  Would you ever do a movie with that as a premise? What happens if he dies?  Greetings Mr Lundgren, is there any truth to the rumours that JCVD was a bit careless and would follow through and hit you during filming of Universal Soldier and that you had to 'have words'?  Thanks for doing the AMA!! Greetings from Scotland.  Dolph, there are not many in Hollywood with advanced scientific degrees. Did this help your career? Should Hollywood have more scientific literate people?

Your Bacon number is 2, have you published an academic paper earning you an Erdos number?

We're exploring these topics in our doc project www.erdos-bacon.com , we'd love any opportunity for a quick interview.

Cheers. How does it feel to know that you were the standard pseudo substitute teacher for classrooms all over the place? You and Bill Nye were the best part about the teacher not being there. I just bought a reading rainbow shirt at Target, and it's my favorite thing. But above all thank you!  ***Hahahahaha!***

And *I* thank *you!* I'm really most proud of our continuing efforts to be a part of the lives of kids. 

 As a European who's never set foot on the American continents, all this...reading rainbow stuff is very foreign to me, but I did hear Geordi La Forge's voice in my head with your intonation of "*I* thank *you*!"

How does it feel to still be an intra-galactic superstar after all these years? I hope it feels good.
(if you ever meet the blind guy who  played Geordi La Forge, tell him hi from me) I thought Burton was the best actor on ST: TNG. I mean, of course Patrick Stewart is amazing with that voice and all, but LaForge seemed like a real engineer, a geek with a love for his ship. You really felt like the ship was in good hands. Burton put so much enthusiasm into the techno-babble the writers gave him that you almost never questioned it. And his character had pathos, he is the only character whose romantic failures really resonated as something painful, an that was all Burton's doing. 

And, he did it all *without his eyes visible*. One of the actor's greatest assets, covered up.  Everyone here forgetting about Data and Brent Spinner... I don't, the fact that the two characters were best of friends made it all the better. Motherfuckers act like they forgot about Data.  Honestly, while LeVar was fantastic, I still adore John Delancie in his role as Q. But Q is also my favorite character from TNG, so I'm biased. For just the crew, Geordi is definitely my second favorite after Picard. Yes! Geordie was the coolest character in Next Generation!! Walking around like Marvel's Cyclops.  I suspect Geordie was the coolest character because  of the fact that LeVar is a seriously likeable guy just shone through.  Bill Nye was our commencement speaker last year and LeVar Burton this year. Now that just isn't fair. I hope as bill walked up the whole crowd chanted BIL BILL BILL. And I hope levar ends with don't take my word for it. Or something. But that is very cool Next year they've got Bill Murray lined up. If you can believe that... Where do you go to school? Hogwarts? Narnia? Disney world? Where is this mystical place  Nobody will believe you. UML! Uh, excuse me but aren't you [forgetting someone?](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_mdetjuVQeM1rtntdlo1_500.png) and Mister Rogers Hi LeVar!
Can you tell us something about yourself that we may find surprising?  Well, let's see. I studied in the Catholic Seminary for the priesthood for four years.  Follow up: are you still a religious man? I gave up organized religion many years ago. However, God plays a critically central role in my life.  I consider myself to be a "Recovering Catholic".  Sometimes I miss the ceremony, but not the BS.  Now I just say I have faith but not religion. Did you know the callout/response traditions changed about a decade ago? I haven't been to mass in 30 years and yet I still think the new way sounds very wrong.

Edit: the changes were made in 2011, not a decade ago It still sounds very wrong  =/ I don't care what they say; whenever someone says "may the force be with you", I will **always** respond with "and also with you." Glad I'm not the only one  =) "We lift up Yoda onto our backs"

"It is right to give him thanks and praise"

I just made that up but now I'm going to start spreading it.  "Lift up your lightsabers"

"We lift them up to the force" "And with your spirit" sounds 1,000X lamer. 1. As the 30th anniversary of TNG approaches in a few years, would you ever consider filming another TNG movie?

2. Do you have any special memories about Leonard Nimoy that you'd like to share?

3. Do you and Brent Spiner still talk? Data and Geordi were my favorite two characters from TNG.

Thanks for doing this AMA! 1.) *Only* if all of my TNG castmates were involved.

2.) Sure! Leonard was a very kind and generous man. Some of my favorite memories of Leonard were evenings out, eating, drinking, and laughing. 

3.) *Who's he?* ***HA HA HA HA!*** Brent Spiner, I'm not familiar! ***HA HA HA HA!*** Brent and I talk all the time! No, we all keep in touch, the Next Gen cast. When I got married many years ago, Brent was my best man, and my groomsmen were Jonathan Frakes, Michael Dorn, and Patrick Stewart. It made for a pretty kick-ass wedding photo. 

You're welcome!  Lets see the photo! Not his, but Marina Sirtis' wedding in 1992. Spiner and Dorn were groomsmen. 

http://www.gettyimages.co.uk/detail/news-photo/actor-levar-burton-actor-michael-dorn-actor-patrick-stewart-news-photo/185481628 I don't know why I expected them to be in makeup and Star Fleet uniform.  90's was a bad decade for ties, thanks for reminding me. The 90s was a bad decade for a lot of things. At least with the 80s I can kind of understand the aesthetic that they were going for, even if it's embarrassing and didn't work. The 90s though ... what a terrible time to have eyeballs. Dorne is fucking huge! Damn! Sounds like you should had a Trek themed wedding hah &gt; 1.) Only if all of my TNG castmates were involved.
 
Even /u/wil?
 *All* of them: Whoopi, Diana Muldaur, Denise Crosby, Broccoli... http://31.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lr3b8nAMdT1qfrk53o1_250.gif It always bugged me how clearly Patrick Stewart enunciated "Broccoli" in that gag... it's like the American scriptwriters just didn't realise that "Barclay" would sound nothing like "Broccoli" to a French Scottish Brit... If memory serves, the crew had just finished explaining the nickname to Picard before his conversation with Barclay. Picard, being slightly out of touch with lower-level officers in such a large crew, proceeded to mix the two names up unconsciously. Stewart enunciates "broccoli" because that's what Picard is pronouncing.

That's why the gag works at all. The captain is so oblivious to Barclay that he doesn't even catch himself using the nickname. It cements Barclay's isolation from the crew at every level. The last thing we heard about you in Community was that the boat you and Troy were on got captured by pirates.  If you were allowed to come up with a story of your escape, what would it be? Out of their benevolence, the pirates dropped LeVar and Troy off in Tahiti.

And they sailed around for the rest of their lives in the South Pacific. 

And published a coffee table book of their adventures. *Near and LeVar: The Troy Barnes Story* *Kunta-KinTiki* Tahiti is a magical place. They could open a veterinary clinic with the coffee-table book money.  Best. Day. Ever. Too soon. :'( Oh, go keep more secrets, Colson.  http://i.imgur.com/ZPNpIS7.jpg JPG? 

Have we gone back to the dark times?  Is this now canon?  You don't have to take *his* word for it! Why don't they call it Planet Trek? You never go to a star. Not one episode. NCC-1701D enters the corona of a star on multiple occasions for research or combat. Hey LeVar!

What would you say is your favourite moment with RoosterTeeth? ***Hahahahaha!***

Um... I love RoosterTeeth. And I suppose one of the things I love MOST about them is that the RoosterTeeth fandom is a place that my daughter Mica and I can connect.  I gotta say, as a swede, I hadn't heard of you or reading rainbow until the 25 hour stream, but your daugther is damn hilarious if I'm not mistaken she's also in some of the jackbox let's plays. She's indeed one of the better guests they've had Yeah those drawful let's plays and the family feud is one of my favourite LPs period
 If you had a holodeck of your own, where and when would you want to go first? *Nice question.*

I would create a Holodeck program where I could fly without any apparatus whatsoever.

And I'd spend hours touring the sky.  But with  a book you could go twice as high! Take a look, it's in a book? A reading rainbow? I can go anywhere! Did you know Mr. Rogers?  He was a childhood and still is a hero of mine and believe we need more people like him.   Yes, I did know Mr. Rogers.

Fred was both a friend, and a mentor, to me.

We met first at a PBS event in Crystal City *many* years ago. And over time, we became good friends. I went to Pittsburgh to do an episode of his show, and unfortunately he passed before he had a chance to come and do READING RAINBOW.  :( I wish I could have met him.   I met and lived on same street as mr.dressup..does that count? Super counts. Ernie Coombs was just as awesome as Fred Rogers.  As an adult, I often think - am I someone Mr Rogers would be proud of?  

It's kind of crazy how influential and important children's programming can be in a person's life, even 30+ years later. &gt; am I someone Mr Rogers would be proud of?

Yes. You know what the best thing is?  You're probably right The beautiful thing about Mr Rogers is that *everyone* is someone Mr Rogers is proud of. There's a chilling thought: the ghost of Fred Rogers comes back, looks at you and says "you know, I really *don't* like you just the way you are..." He wouldn't, though. He'd offer constructive advice about how to make the world better.  If you get hated on by Mr. Rogers ghost, I believe you dun fucked up.  Yes, because he loves you just the way you are. Also, check out /r/TheChurchOfRogers Hi LeVar!

Which author has had the greatest impact on your life?  Wow.

That's a pretty big question.

There have been *so* many - from Isaac Asimov, to Carl Sagan, to Alex Haley, to Gene Roddenberry... writers who've had a *tremendously* profound impact on my life.

It's *impossible* for me to choose just one. I love Carl Sagan.  You should have been asked to the host of the new cosmos Sorry if this has already been asked but can you explain Skybrary and how it will impact the reading, the learning, the education, and the fun of new generations of readers?  I mean, isn't that what Reading Rainbow is all about? Absolutely. That is *exactly* what Reading Rainbow is all about.

And here's how Skybrary works: when you log on, you are launched into the cockpit of your own hot air balloon.

Out in front of you, you will find islands in the sky that are themed.

This is where our content lives. 

Our books, and our video field-trips. 

This enables a child to have a *self-directed* experience that is about *adventure* and *discovery* of books and videos that they would *themselves* like to read. 


 That sounds awesome.  It took too long for me to get into reading books for fun because it was always presented as a chore, as homework, not as the adventure it really is.  Now I read about 100 books a year and love to live in their pages.  Not being that much younger than you I missed out on Reading Rainbow as a kid.  Thank you for your passion and in bringing it back. The Skybrary really is wonderful. I am a Reading Rainbow KickStarter backer, and recently got my daughter going in the Skybrary. She's able to cruise around to the themed islands, pick books, and put them into her backpack. IIRC, she gets room for 5 books in her backpack, and shes able to read them, or have them read to her from there. When done, she can return them and get more.

The books are also somewhat interactive, giving the option to the reader to  click/tap on an action icon to see a part of the story come alive. I feel that part of the books help keep the readers active and engaged in the story.  How uncomfortable was that visor in The Next Generation? *Ha!*

The visor was... very uncomfortable. People don't believe me when I say that we literally screwed it into my head.

However, it's true.

 Hold the phone! What do you mean they screwed into your head? Like it screwed into your skullbone? Probably it had to grip his head tightly to stay on well during any kind of movement, and unlike most sunglasses it is likely heavy-ish and does not go back to the ears. I imagine no matter how it gripped (either by pinching the nose or by pinching on his temples) it wasn't very comfortable. [He has talked about it a lot in interviews, like this one:](http://alibi.com/feature/37621/La-Forge-to-Bridge.html)

"Comfortable is not a word I would ever introduce into a conversation about the visor. In fact, it was anything but comfortable. We screwed the visor into my head. In part, that's how it stayed on.

It's hard to get a clear sense of what I'm talking about unless you see the visual. It's sufficient to say there was pressure applied through a mechanism of flanges and screws that put pressure on my temples. So after about half an hour I'd get a headache.

People always ask me, Could you see out of that thing? And the answer is, no, I couldn't. It was always very funny to me because when the actor puts the visor on 85 to 90 percent of my vision was taken away, yet I'm playing a guy who sees more than everyone else around him. So that's just God's cruel little joke." I remember having my mom send you a letter when you were on Star Trek because Geordi was my favorite. You wrote back some inspiring thing that had nothing to do with my letter. Did you have just a blanket statement that you sent people back then?

BTW, I still have it. In fact, I did have a blanket card that I used to send to fans back in the day. I'm trying to remember now what it said. It's just escaping me. It was a 5 x 7 card that had a picture on one side, and a note on the reverse, it was during a time when there was just *no* way for me to personally answer every request for an autograph. I didn't have the infrastructure. We were a two person shop! But I'm glad you still kept it! Looks like /u/Animist_Prime got a personalized message after all ;) Do you have a favourite TNG moment?  *Wow.*

So many.

So many moments!

I'd have to say in "Nemesis" when Geordi sees sunrise through human eyes. That's a pretty good moment. That was Insurrection. To Levar's credit Insurrection was originally named Nemesis, and would have been known as Nemesis for a good chunk of production. They changed it to Insurrection later. You just outnerded the guy that outnerded LeVar Burton. Nerds correcting Star Trek actors, [keep the tradition alive](https://carlaspeaks.files.wordpress.com/2010/09/long-galaxy-quest.jpg). Why would a man whose shirt says "Genius at Work" spend all of his time watching a children's cartoon show? I withdraw my question REKT Really? You couldn't go with InsurREKTion?

 Or TREKT? I immediately thought of the Shatner "Get a life!" SNL skit. What was it like doing voice work on Adventure Time? Do you watch the show?  ***Hahaha!***

I love Pendleton Ward, and his wacky sense of humor. And yes, I was a fan before voicing Bubble.  I know you were born in Germany. Do you speak German? Ein bissen ja.  Cool! Vielen Dank fr Ihre Antwort. Happy Pentecost to you and yours! O M G why didnt they use this in a TNG episode would have been great. He was Speaking German. ' universal translator'  It may have been French since Le Forge sound French.. And Worf was Russian  You starred with Steve McQueen in his final film.  Can you share your thoughts on his approach to acting?   Steve did not believe that acting was something that could be *taught.* And I tend to agree with him, in the sense that i have a very difficult time *explaining* what I do. Which is absolutely *be* in the moment, be honest, *tell* the truth, and let the chips fall where they may.  FYI, [The Hunter](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rxAyjslyq7c) Would you rather fix 100 plasma conduit sized warp coils, or 1 warp coil sized plasma conduit? Yes. Perfect.

Thank you so much.  That's the part Victoria helped him with.

"Just say yes, they'll love you for it." Can you imagine trying to deal with all of the incredible complexity of a warp coil, but only having a m^2 in which to work? That sounds awful.

Now the plasma conduit is pretty much just a tunnel, so the extra size wouldn't really make it much harder to fix. If I weren't married I'd let you ravish me.  If I weren't engaged I'd... probably take you on a few dates, get along with you okay, and then decide we're better off as friends and develop a strong bond over Star Trek minutiae. [Engage](http://imgur.com/qvelEHc) [Indeed.](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lzuhj9Ry4r1qkux93.gif) Well, now I have *two* pressing questions. Yes, I'm a dude, and yes, you and my wife can double-team me.  LeVar - congrats on the new project (Skybrary)! I'm going to check it out for my nieces.  Is this the next "phase" of Reading Rainbow? *THANK YOU* for asking!

***Hahahaha!***

Yes! Skybrary is in fact our first post-Kickstarter product. 

And Skybrary is actually our entire library service. All of our books and video field trips on the web! We've taken our number one educational app, and totally translated it for the web browser. Our target demographic is the entry-level reading age child - we like to think of it as being between 2-9 years of age. 

I'm very proud of it.  Very cool! Thanks! Did you know Michael Dorn is Vegan?  Are you Vegan?   I did indeed know that Michael Dorn is vegan.

I am not vegan. 

However, Brent Spiner is vegetarian.  no wonder why they both have such good skin?   I'm Ron Burgundy? Would you ever consider a return to 'Star Trek' with the cast from The Next Generation and the other series if it was done in an animation style similar to how 'Star Wars' did 'The Clone Wars'?
Personally I would love to see some of the books like the Destiny Trilogy, The Typhon Pact and The Fall be done with the combined casts from over the years. I would certainly consider it! You heard it here, folks. Star Trek: The Animated Series: The Next Generation confirmed.  Hey LeVar! Do you remember this? (the time you and I spoke!)

I am not sure if you will read this, or even recall this incident with you but:

You and I actually spoke in person, and I have to say it was one of the highlights of my life...You were always someone I looked up to growing up (80's kid, Reading Rainbow was my jam - And STTNG is one of my favorite series of all time, if not THE favorite)...

How we spoke - if you recall: This was about 12 years ago, shortly after ST: Nemesis came out...I used to work for Apple computers as a tech support, and you called in having forgotten your password. I noted your name, and said that you shared it with one of my favorite people, ever. On the phone, you didn't sound like Levar Burton at all, but you said that it was in fact you. I said I didn't believe you and continued the phone call, after I helped you reset your PC's password, you asked me why I didn't think it was you, to which I replied that it just didn't sound like you. Seconds after this you made a couple inflections not on purpose, that were spot on for Geordi/yourself, specifically your sigh (weird I know) but it was an AH-HA moment for me, and I exclaimed "holy shit, it is you"...You made a couple jokes then we bantered a bit and talked Star Trek, etc, and then asked your PA/Secretary to come onto the phone and take down my address...Even though it was against company policy (albeit I will admit I didn't care), I knew that Levar Burton wasn't going to come to my house all the way in Canada and kill me or something. So I of course gave her my address..Two weeks later I received a signed picture of you expressing your best wishes (I told you I wanted to be in the film industry-Which I now am!), and thanks for the assistance.

You're a fucking awesome person. In many ways. I just wanted to let Reddit know how you actually took that time, which is totally in character for your known personality, and how awesome you are. Thanks for being there when I was growing up, I am sure I am not alone.

Thanks for making my day! Hope you haven't forgotten your password again.
 That is amazing. What do you think the world is missing more, if you had to chose one:  love or education?   In my view, education *is* love.  This is the perfect answer. Thank you, Mr Burton.  what is your favorite current TV show?  Movie?   *Let's see... television or movie...*

I'm pretty hooked on Game of Thrones. Some pretty quality storytelling going on right there. And in my queue, I've got Orange is the New Black, and House of Lies.  "Game of Thrones. Some pretty quality storytelling going on right there. But you don't have to take my word for it" Hello, Mr. Burton. 

Thanks for doing another AMA. 

I have been a fan of your work since childhood. I just wanted to say that you are an amazing man!
My question for you is this:
Who was the best author you ever met, and who would you most like to meet? 
Thanks again, and keep up the great work! Wow, the *best author I've met?*

Holy moly. At the risk of offending some pre-tty great authors... I will plead the Fifth on that question! 

Would LOVE to have met John Updike. Would love to have met John Updike. &gt; pre-tty

Spot-on, /u/chooter! *salutes* BBC America moved the three episodes of STNG from 8 am to 12 pm and only show 2 episodes now.  Can you talk to them for me?  

I would like it back to the three episodes at 8 am.  Thanks Unfortunately I have no connections at BBC America.  The thing about us Star Trek fans is that it's impossible to tell if that request was a joke or not.   Insufficient Data :/ Just like Nemesis. TOO SOON That wasn't insurrection. I'm detecting high levels of meta from the thread, sir. The whole series is on Netflix, if you have access to that. Hello LeVar!
What is your spirit animal? *chuckles heartily*

Donald Glover is my spirit animal! http://imgur.com/GfqFn6U Thank you very much for your efforts at Reading Rainbow.  I watched that show as a kid from ~1990-1995, both in school and out.  Reading Rainbow allowed me to discover many worlds, without Star Trek.  

What projects take up most of your time these days?
 Most of my time these days is occupied by Reading Rainbow.

Our digital products for kids, and the growing thing that is the business of Reading Rainbow.  Excellent!  I wish you well with this.   Hi. What are your favorite pizza toppings? Pepperoni, sausage, jalapeno.  [deleted] TIL LeVar Burton has the same favorite pizza as me. Did you always like Scifi or did you become a fan or bigger fan after star trek?   I was a fan of science fiction *before* I became a member of the cast of Star Trek. Gene Roddenberry's vision of the future was VERY important to me, when I was growing up. My family and I watched the original series faithfully.  What artists past and or present inspire you the most and why? I'm a huge Van Morrison fan. For me, Van is the singer / songwriter / poet / sinner / saint / troubadour of my generation.  what technology surprised you that was inspired by star trek? I continually *marvel* at a lot of the technology we currently enjoy that was inspired by Star Trek.

I'm *convinced* that there was some child who watched the original episodes of Star Trek... and kept seeing Kirk pull out a communicator, to call Scotty on the ship. That child grew up, became a scientist, an engineer, and designed a product *more prevalent* than the toaster. The cell phone. I'd recommend you watch the documentary 'How William Shatner Changed the World' sometime. You're absolutely right about cell phones and they go into that and a ton of other fascinating things. I hope you get the chance to enjoy it. 

I have to add that I enjoyed Reading Rainbow so much throughout my childhood. Thank you for the tremendous amount of time you must have put into it. Are you going to the Beach or BBQing today? Today, I am neither going to the beach, *nor* am I barbecuing. Can I come over to your house? I would love that.  Anytime you are in NJ :) *chuckles*

I'll be right over! What is your favorite charity?   Wow. My favorite charity?

I am a big fan of Shared Hope International. They do amazing work on the planet. And I'm a big supporter of First Book. And little free libraries.  Roots!  Reading Rainbow!  Star Trek!  Reading Rainbow again.  Is there one thing you have done that makes you most proud?  Is there one thing on your bucket list... something that you have dreamed of doing... that would match up to the good works you have done so far? Had I been given an opportunity to dream up my career *thus far*, I would *never* have been able to imagine the things that I have had the chance to do in this life. From ROOTS to Star Trek to Reading Rainbow, I am *enormously* grateful that my work represents an effort to not simply *entertain,* but to educate as well. 

Even perhaps *enlighten* a little, along the way.

The future? I can't wait to see what happens next. What was the most ridiculous technobabble line you delivered while on star trek? Hi LeVar!

I'm pregnant with my first child and not due until July, but I already can't wait to share Skybrary with her! (I know it's recommended for ages 2 - 9, but I'm willing to do the navigating in the beginning!) Do you have a book that you would recommend that I could introduce early, but that will keep on giving as she gets older? I grew up with Reading Rainbow, and I'm so excited to be able to embark on this new chapter (no pun intended) with her! What are your top five favourite books, or children's books? 
As a librarian, I must know! I can pick a couple. I like recommending children's books are ENEMY PIE by Derek Munson and AMAZING GRACE, with illustrations by Caroline Binch and text by Mary Hoffman. brah. that's some Reading Rainbow flashback right there.
 Do you think social media has an overall positive or negative affect on children?   Well, depends on what age group you're talking about. I actually don't know many 9 year olds that are *on* social media. When you say "social media," I think of Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, those kinds of things.  Weren't you captured by pirates with Troy Barnes? ***Yes,*** I was.  Hi LeVar! What is your favorite word or phrase? Not safe for this conversation! *chuckles heartily*  Any chance of getting involved in some RoosterTeeth stuff again?

I'd love to see you on the podcast! Hey LeVar!
My sister is currently in 8th grade and in her history class they are learning about United States history, so they are naturally learning about the slave trade and slavery in the early United States. They watched a few episodes of Roots and my sister got immediately hooked on the show and she is only 13 years old! 
How does it feel to know that your older work such as Roots is still affecting today's youth and showing them how horrible concepts such as slavery and racism are? I know it has made a big impression in my sister and my own lives. Was that really you on the Cameo - Word Up music video? *Abso-lutely.* Hey Levar, what's for lunch? *Hmmmm* - well, *now* I'm pretty hungry for barbecue, since someone mentioned it earlier! What percentage of people do you anticipate will pronounce it SKYBERRY? I had some professional fan art.  It was a series but I cannot remember the artist.  The series was doing Brent and Denise as Data and Tasha as though they were on romance novel covers.  Denise thinks they are a hoot.  I gave one to her, one to Alexis Cruz from Stargate (so he could get her to sign it for him), and one to Bill Blair (the main behind so many alien masks), and kept one for myself.  Just gotta track down old yellow eyes himself and get his autograph too.

Have you ever had any really flattering fan art done about you or Geordi, in writing or drawing?  Ever had it go the other way and be too much and offensive? Good Morning LeVar! Thank you so much for Reading Rainbow when I was growing up. Now to share it with my children is really special. Also avid Star Trek fans, we love you for Geordi. I have been a since I can remember, what was your favorite project in your 30's? If there would have been a compelling story, would you have played Geordi as his own Starship Captain or Head of Starfleet Engineering? But just one more time, thank you so much for all you have done. You gave me a life long passion for reading as a child and I have never lost it. ***Hahaha!***

I think it would've been fun to have explored the character of Geordi as the captain of his own ship!  Amusingly, I watched the episode of Voyager where Geordi is captain of his own Galaxy class starship.  You look damn good in a captain's chair sir! Speaking of, I want to tell you that "Timeless" is absolutely one of the best. And your direction was a big part of that.

That episode is the perfect mix of high concept sci-fi with a very human story. You also had to do an episode based around two of the least developed characters (Chakotay and Harry Kim) and managed to create really powerful arcs for both.

I still get shivers from that scene where future Harry tells his past self:

&gt; [Hello, Harry. I don't have much time, so listen to me. Fifteen years ago, I made a mistake and one hundred and fifty people died. I've spent every day since then regretting that mistake, but if you're watching this right now, that means all of that has changed. You owe me one.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e6NRt1kasUQ)

Plus it was a a nice bonus to see *Captain* LaForge on the USS Challenger, even if he got erased from history by the end of the hour.

So good job with that one! Either on the set of Reading Rainbow or TNG, were there any jokes/pranks that were made that still stick with you to this day?

Who was the biggest jokester on the TNG cast? Hi, /u/_LeVarBurton. Ive just introduced my wife to Star Trek. We're watching TOS (about half way through). She's already told me that she's excited to watch TNG. It was a huge part of my childhood watching it with my mom, and I'm very excited to share it with my wife. Would you be willing to share how working on TNG (and the movies) helped you to become a better human in light of having to work through so many social issues through the show? What's your favorite line you delivered as a character? *chuckles heartily*

The most memorable I think I've delivered, and certainly one of my favorites, is from Reading Rainbow - "*But you don't have to take MY word for it."* Greetings LeVar!

While you were hosting Reading Rainbow, what episode was your favorite? Also, which book was your favorite that was featured on the show?

Thank you. Gosh, a lot of requests for favorites today!

Over the twenty-six years we did episodes of READING RAINBOW, there are so many that stand out. Among them would be HILL OF FIRE, where we went to Hawaii during an eruption of Kilauea - being at the summit of a volcano in the middle of an eruption was pretty spectacular, inspiring, and scary as hell! 

And we did indeed feature hundreds of books on the show.  Thank you for the response. I really liked the episode where you went behind the scenes of Star Trek:TNG. Since I was about 9 or 10 when that episode aired, that episode encouraged me to use my imagination and to watch TNG (which also got me into several other Sci-Fi shows :) ). Very cool!

Let's see - the book that episode was based on was called "The Bionic Bunny Show," and it was one of the most popular Reading Rainbow episodes of all time!  If Star Trek came back to television in some form, do you think you and the other Star Trek actor/directors would be interested in directing for it again? Why did you remove the cruise ships all-terrain capabilities? :)  It was a sad day at the office. No cake was eaten that day. Guys, are you seeing this? They eat cake the rest of the days! "For the cake" reads on the house banner. It's like "Winter is coming" or "Hear me roar" but not exactly. Oh, while I have your attention - the game is visually beautiful. Don't get me wrong, it's crazy fun too, but seriously it's gorgeous. It's one of the few games that I play where everything scales properly at 4k out of the box. Fantastic! The little details on all of the elements when you zoom in are so much fun! Thanks! It's all about the magic of code and art! :) But... I even incorporated a nice little dirt road for them to ride on :(

http://imgur.com/1x8bjPo RIP The only thing resting in peace in the pic is the quality! ^ This. 

Even the patch notes seemed sad about it. I was sad as I wrote them :( Perhaps we can get a landship DLC? http://pool.theinfosphere.org/images/8/82/Land_Titanic.png What's the funniest glitch/programming error you have come across while creating the game? It was early 2014 and I was trying the bus lines for the first time: http://i.imgur.com/o4vgc7C.gif

P.s. I call it "The Party Bus". LOL! Why haven't I ever seen this? Because it was in my private stash this whole time! :D I usually try to record and storage images and so forth from during the development. Let me put it this way, you could get some serious karma by posting the "Bloopers" on /r/CitiesSkylines  Ah, the always elusive internet points! This... private stash.. is there more?

I love development bloopers. Perhaps... ;) Good job on the perfect loop... I just spent a full 5 minutes hypnotised waiting for an end... At this point, did you stand up and shout: "Ladies and gentlemen, we have recreated SimCity"? (Sorry, that SimCity barb was like the elephant in the room.) Haha! I think I send the animation to everyone in the group chat :D Are European buildings really restricted to 3 new maps?

How about vanilla game north &amp; south Europe maps?

Can buildings be controlled through district tools?

Or is it for the modders to unlock the new buildings for other maps too?

Please pretty please do not leave this issue for modders only. One of the reasons the European buildings are their "own set" so to speak is because they add quite a lot of graphical assets into the game which, if simply added to the vanilla game assets, would most likely exceed the system specs set for the game, making it require more powerful hardware and in worst case, render the game unplayable for the lower end machines. This needs more upvotes for visibility! We're pretty much obliged to stand by our system requirements as far as I am aware. Could you not have it as an option, though? Like how you can crank the graphics settings up on a more powerful system, have the option to choose what combination of asset sets will be enabled? Though I suppose that could run into trouble when loading a savegame created on a computer that could handle more than your own computer can... But would it be possible to change the map theme of existing maps?

I'm thinking of all those pretty dutch maps by [Zakerias](http://steamcommunity.com/workshop/filedetails/?id=426345821)... Do you have any future plans for mod support, some way to improve it or change the way things happen? While developing the 'Traffic Manager' mod I faced a lot of problems with accessing stuff that was not meant to be modified by mods (like the PathManager/Pathfinder). And while it can be easily modified by replacing it on the uppermost layers, it makes it impossible for another mod to use it without causing conflicts.  
There are some ideas throughout the modding community for an unified/shared API that will put a layer for mods to use, so they can all share similar functionality without conflicts (like CKAN for Kerbal Space Program and Skyrim's Nexus mod manager).  
Do you have any ideas for that or do you think it's better to leave it on the community to make it happen? We are committed to improving the modding tools and I'll be happy to get this answered by someone who actually understands about programming :D

We were kind of hoping the wiki would become a good place for modders to share information but it seems it hasn't been as popular as we had hoped: http://www.skylineswiki.com/Modding Can we get Skytrains?

You know, so there can be actual rail lines in the sky?

Skylines you might say? Mind. Blown. 

This has to be the next thing, only thing, we work on from now on. Are there plans to add tunnels for pedestrian paths? I would love to build pedestrian underpasses! It's something we'd like to see and is definitely somewhere on our to-do list. No ETA or indication as to when, though. There are lots of things we want to do! How about stairs? I never understood why pedestrian paths were bound to the same slope rules when in real life you can just builds a staircase. Irl, stairs are only used in exceptions because of issues like wheelchair accessibility and maintenance equipment. [Or Pittsburgh] (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steps_of_Pittsburgh) Thanks, this led to some interesting googling.  Check [this one](http://www.smithsonianmag.com/smart-news/pittsburgh-struggling-maintain-its-45454-public-step-180951720/?no-ist) out, for example.

I've seen a fair number of step-dense towns in Norwegian fjords, where the steps usually act as pedestrian shortcuts between segments of winding road.  &gt;Steps must be taken to reduce costs

nice Pittsburgh stairs are weird...  We have some that are merely sidewalks to very steep streets, like on Canton Ave: http://www.frontiernet.net/~rochballparks2/towns/08_pgh_canton2.jpg

We have others that are "streets" themselves.  They show up on maps, but there is no road, only stairs!  Like, take Ceaser way, which is stairs (http://www.frontiernet.net/~rochballparks5/pittsburgh/08_pgh_st_caesar.jpg) which intersects with Eleanor St., which is stairs at that location (https://www.google.com/maps/place/Caesar+Way,+Pittsburgh,+PA+15203/@40.422707,-79.9724113,19z/data=!4m2!3m1!1s0x8834f172c48b7345:0x31cfda3b081db30c).  Luckily newer maps are differentiating between stair streets and real streets, but earlier GPS units would often tell you to turn onto a set of stairs! I'm from Pittsburgh. It just occurred to me but are these uncommon?  I can think of a dozen sets of stairs going everywhere and it just blew my mind to think that they're unique to my hometown... Los Angeles has a ton, there was recently a story about it on NPR which was interesting because I am from Pittsburgh also and I had always thought the stairs were a burgh thing. I wonder if there might be a spike in crime in said tunnels haha Did you run into any difficulties using Unity as your game engine? If you could go back knowing what you know now would you still choose it? Unity (like any other game engine) has its pros and cons. I personally think that our programmers have been able to do a lot of things previously thought very hard or even close to impossible with Unity such as the rather extensive modding feature we have in Cities: Skylines. My biggest gripe would be the loading times opening and loading the project but that might just be my soon-to-be-old workstation that's acting up. Does Skylines use many Unity 5.0 features? or was it created mainly in the 4.x environment? if it doesn't use 5.0 are there any features from that would like to include in the future? It was created in 4.x and ported to 5 shortly before launch as far as I am aware. As a linux and mac user, I thank you guys for using unity! You're welcome. :) Making games == running into difficulties. 

Unity has worked really well for us and I believe knowing what we know now it still would be our top choice. Good evening, guys. Many players of CSL want to input trams in game. Do you have plans about it? And.. What about trolleybuses as  CIM (St. Petersburg), CIM2? Trams are something we will think about in the future. So many players are asking for them to be added so it has gotten our attention. Also we like trams. Woop! Trams are awesome, although not in Gothenburg...  Ah it's not so bad is it? I live in Stockholm and have always been a bit envious about Gothenburgs trams, but that may be because we only have a tiny tiny tramlines over here... But we have the tunnelbana which is FAR better than trams in GBG. Trust me, I grew up there and live in Stockholm now. No one that prefers the Gothenburg system is in their right mind. Ah yeah, the good old TunnelBanana.  That's the first ever Swedish word I learned. [Tunnelbanan](http://fc07.deviantart.net/fs71/f/2013/183/0/6/tunnelbanan_by_andersredna-d6bou88.jpg), for scale  Well, sir, there's nothing on earth like a genuine, bona fide electrified, six-car monorail. What would you do if EA tried to buy you? [Something like this.](http://i.imgur.com/U9JF72T.gif) EAs reaction: http://i.imgur.com/TK9zjDF.gifv Damn them and their truck loads of money. Good, good.  [But then you see the check and be all like](http://i.imgur.com/zmDuNdu.jpg) There is maybe... $200 in that pic.  [Is this better?](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/originals/0f/4f/b6/0f4fb66bf01c7b0a7523cefec146b1e6.jpg) Reasonably. How about this? 

http://31.media.tumblr.com/a6487c623de001bfec9f8fbf88ce6648/tumblr_mlcjmyszR71qjeigjo1_500.gif [It doesn't work like that](http://gfycat.com/FelineCapitalAmphibian) This was the proper response.  Nice try, EA. Do you have any plans for your next big update? If so, are you willing to give them away yet? Yes, we do! Unfortunately I'm not at liberty to share anything yet but it's exciting stuff. Think gameplay, added depth and stuff that actually matters and you're well on your way. &gt; added depth

Scuba diving resort and harbour DLC confirmed! Wouldn't it be awesome if they could incorporate Zoo Tycoon, Roller Coaster Tycoon, Cim life, and other simulators into the game itself so you can have a city simulation, mayoral simulation, but then also theme park owner, etc simulation?

Talk about depth.
 Simulator Simulator 2016 And then you zoom out and see yourself playing the game. /r/woahdude Zoom in*

You're at a computer at the top of your city hall (monitor rendered as the contents of your screen, portal style, of course). Sim Simmy Apparently there's code for bicycles in the patch, will these be added?  
  
Edit:
&gt; if (info.m_vehicleType == VehicleInfo.VehicleType.Bicycle) No the code is actually for eye patches to be put on all the citizens  Hey Guys. I have some questions for you

1) What are your favorite mods of Cities Skylines

2) Do you watch streams/let's plays of Cities Skylines

3) Will we get different weathers at some point?
 Hey there!

These are of course my personal opinions :)

1) Dynamic Resolution, Traffic++ and that one citizen tracker mod that I can't remember what it's called.

2) I did a lot around launch but never find the time anymore. Aiming to do so when we release a bigger expansion!

3) Commonly suggested idea that we think is pretty awesome, I can say that much :) There are two cim trackers:

Citizen Tracker (quite basic): http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=413448449

Favorite Cims (like having your own personal NSA): http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=426460372 &gt;like having your own personal NSA 

lol, great description I have a question about 3. You all thinking about adding natural disasters? Even optionally? You can make your own disaster right now with dams.  I've flooded out half a city by make a dam too big on a forked river.  Half my city was under water! 1) I like Gula's buildings and nlight's and subsequently SurelyExploding's First Person Camera mods. Unlock 25 tiles is of course a cool mod, as well.

2) I spent quite a lot of time during the first month watching people stream Cities: Skylines (subscribed to few as well). It was cool to be able to chat with the streamers in real time and give them tips and hear their suggestions about the game.

3) Can't say anything about this. &gt; 3) Can't say anything about this.

Gotta love that suspiciously specific denial. ;)  :D Hey there! Can we get any documentation/templates for making custom vehicles, now that there's support for them in the game? I want to make a hemglass-van, but I don't know what the requirements are :( We'll look into updating the wiki with information about the vehicles. That would be fantastic. An ideal situation would be a "template" fbx file for a car as well (the standard Sedan would do nicely). Hello! Are there any plans to address the fact that traffic bunches up all in one lane? Also, there's a bug where trains get clogged up leaving the city, is that going to be fixed?

Love the game! The traffic is going to stay so that the vehicle's route is calculated only at the beginning of the journey for now.

The train issue we must investigate more but it's in our radar now.  Has there been any considerations to use something sorta like a network routing protocol to determine best path for vehicles? 
  
Traffic only using 1 lane when there are many to chose from is keeping me from enjoying the game to its potential and havent played lately because of it. IMHO this is something more for the vehicle AIs than the pathfinder. The path finder should set overall route, but vehicle AI should be allowed to do little lane changes along the way (eg. overtaking a traffic jam). I think the trouble is scale. The advantage of picking a single route at the beginning of the travel is you aren't constantly running hundreds of little AI simulations. The big difficulty is that navely changing lanes (like real drivers do) doesn't actually fix traffic jams, it just spreads them out over multiple lanes.  While realistic, this also makes diagnosing the cause of a traffic jam more difficult for players, since instead of "all the cars along this path are slow" we get "holy crap this entire interchange is clogged and I don't know why."  

Even paths that would ordinarily use different lanes would interact, creating an additional potential for "nonlinear traffic jams."

Adding verisimilitude to the traffic model is a great goal, but doing it "almost right" may be worse than doing it entirely wrong. I agree, but the reason people want better lane changes is so that their roads look more like those in real-life. In real life it's bad lane changing, overtaking, etc., that makes traffic jams even worse - you just get all lanes filled with slow traffic rather than one, but that's what people want to see - traffic that mimics RL more closely.

There are already exceptional tools like Traffic Report Tool mod for finding out where traffic is coming from and going to, and even the Favorite Cims mod allows deep investigation in to what cims are up to.

One thing that could overcome many problems is having 'merging' cars sit between lanes, allowing some cars to overtake them (slowly) - you already see this in game when a traffic jam appears behind a hears that's collecting the dead. Every so often a car will sneak past if there is no oncoming traffic for a little while.

Modders have recently found how to make vehicles 'non-blocking' - the Enhanced Hearse AI mod from Soda is a good example of this. By combining that with some extra code we could potentially create a mod that gets much closer to RL-like traffic. &gt; Hello! Are there any plans to address the fact that traffic bunches up all in one lane?

I find if you fiddle, you might be able to fix that. I'm at work, so I don't have any SS, but I was having an issue where I was using a one-way road (the 6 lane one) to get the traffic back towards the highway. 

I noticed that the main road (also 6 lane, but both ways) that led to this one-way road was super backed up, and people were only using one of the lanes. I tried a highway ramp first, but I found that a two-lane one way road somehow cleared up the issue? 

The bunching up in one lane is usually caused by an issue, it's just hard to know which.  Hey guys,

first of all thank you so much for this awesome game and keeping the city builder genre alive!! :) I'm sure with your awesome development team and the eye-to-eye community contact, C:S will have a bright future. You'll make the game even greater than it is right now! :)

But now to my questions!

1) Roads! I think you can agree that roads make up a big chunk of the city builder genre. Although the current range of roadtypes provided by the game are a good basement, there are endless possiblities and ideas on increasing the variety (road textures, road(-side) decorations, lane management, bus lanes, speed limits, pedestrian areas, ...). Do you have any plans on working on that? Maybe even giving the community tools like an asset editor for roads?

2) Biomes! Was the decision on making european biomes bound to a distric rather than a whole map a techinal choice or a design choice? I think there are many cities that combine different styles, it would be cool if this would be possible to recreate in C:S!

3) Simplicity versus Depth! The decision between making something simple and easy to understand, but not very complex and powerful versus the opposite - powerful and complex, but with a steep learning curve and a lot of time investment for the player - is something you often have to face in designing (I guess?). Some players love to go really deep into micromanaging and want to regulate as much as possible (e.g. Traffic Management, I'm guilty of that!). Others want to leave a lot of decisions to the game and rather focus on something else. What is your take on this conflict and how are you going to approach that in future Updates and Addons?

Thanks for taking the time and doing this AMA. Thanks for you great game. Thanks for keeping committed to the game with updates and Addons! I'll be gladly spending more money on the game! :)
 1) We love roads. Unfortunately having to go too deep with the roads can start feeling too much micromanagement and therefore we're not planning to go too much into details with them. However a couple of things we have discussed and are looking into: naming the roads, new road options/policies and figuring out if the roads could be made moddable. I have no eta on any of these, just telling you guys what we are thinking would be cool.

2) Both technical and design choice. Given the options we had we implemented the European buildings in the best way possible even if I know not all agree with me.

3) This has been one of the more difficult things to balance in Cities: Skylines. We are known for more complex games and had to pull back a lot to make the game more approachable than our previous titles. We trusted the more hardcore players will be able to modify the game to their liking and we'll be focusing on giving more content and features to all the players and improving on the modding tools to cater to cater to the modding community. In the future we will try keep in mind the openness of the game for newcomers while adding depth to the game. #Since reddit prioritizes only the OP, here's a comment so this is a standard response! I just want to be able to make a grid pattern with my roads without getting some slightly-off angle on every other road I try to place. [Give the Road Protractor mod a try](http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=436253779) really helped me in making things line up as well as letting me make some cool shapes. Even better: [Precision Engineering](http://steamcommunity.com/workshop/filedetails/?id=445589127) I totally agree with you, especially in part #2. 
Also it would be great if developers add in the game nice features like weather, day/night cycle and seasons. Also, I think C:S really needs a "make historical" button (look at sc4). Yea please make better road physics and a delete mode for tunnels so while deleting tunnels I don't can destroy something over the tunnel :3 Click and hold on one tunnel, as long as you're holding you will only delete the type of item you first clicked. Will we ever have real roundabouts ? (in which the priority is to the vehicles in the roundabout ) You can make these with the Traffic Manager mod :) Works really well too, trust me! Maybe one day. That'd be great. Also, thank you for having made a Linux version (which I purchased) Thanks for the AMA!!!  C:S is awesome and you guys are awesome for making it.

1)  Any plans on adding other public services to the game beyond garbage/water/power/health/police/fire, like postal services?  I don't think I've seen a city builder with post offices before.

2) The districts in C:S are a great idea and something I think we'd all like to see expanded.  Any insight about what we can expect in the future with districts, like entertainment district, museum district, European/W2W district, pedestrian only, national parks, historic district, etc.

3) 4-lane one way roads in the future?  Yes/no?  :)

4)  Any plans to add more park options?  Zonable parks, national parks, streams (drawable like paths), outdoor recreation, etc are just a couple ideas.

5)  The european style W2W buildings are awesome!  Can we expect any other world architectures to be represented in game?  Asian, russian, middle eastern, etc. 1) Not in the near future, but you have nice idea there.
2) We're looking into working with the districts more.
3) Maybe, we don't have plans to add new roads currently, but in the future why not.
4) Good ideas, adding to the wishlist.
5) I would love that, though the asset heavy stuff take quite a lot of time. Do you think bringing Cities: Skylines to [GOG](http://www.gog.com/wishlist/games/cities_skylines) (or other digital retailers) could be a future possibility? Another user mentioned that it would be difficult to do because of Steamworks.

Thanks for doing the AMA :D I'm trying to get our sales guy in here to give a more educated answer for you!

**FILIP! IF YOU SEE THIS PLEASE HELP ME WITH THIS QUESTION. KTHX&lt;3** I don't know why, but this made me laugh so hard.  Working in the office, the decision of:  "Do I call his desk phone, message him, or do I walk sixty feet to go talk to Bill in Sales?" comes up way too often. Hehe, we're in CEST timezone so this is a fair bit after office hours :) Close to 23 now! I just asked the same question. I'll delete mine and give you a vote. It's worth noting that online compatibility with Steam is a goal for GOG. How in the balls are my ice cube factories catching on fire? A: "We start with water at natural environmental temperature, remove heat from the water, then the water freezes into ice and we sell the ice"

B: "Sounds good. What do you do with about all the heat that you remove?"

A: "We err... What? Oh Crap!!!" Can you add a "Undo"-button? Please please? :D Would it be possible for you to add an option to change the games default save location? The default is C:\Users[YOUR USERNAME]\AppData\Local\Colossal Order\Cities_Skylines\Saves and my C drive is a small SSD (64GB) that has my OS and a couple other things on it. Everything else is installed on a 2TB HDD. Those save files pile up fast and take up a lot of space.

EDIT: I'm familiar with symbolic links and how they work. In this case, I feel that we the community have such as easy way to communicate with the developers that it should be brought up to be changed. CO has a great track record of listening to feedback and communicating with us. If you know your way around computers you may try moving the folder and then creating a symlink to it.  

http://superuser.com/questions/705100/move-appdata-via-symlink-to-a-different-drive It's important to note about this: storing save games in that location is *explicitly violating Microsoft's guidelines about where applications should store user data*.  Now, granted, Microsoft isn't as proactive about enforcing those rules as, say, Apple is, but the guidelines are quite clear, and Skylines is in explicit and severe violation of them.  There's almost no data that Skylines should be storing under %AppData%\Local, that folder is primarily for computer-specific data caching.

According to the explicitly laid-out guidelines provided by Microsoft, Skylines should be storing save games under %UserProfile%\Saved Games, and it should be storing simple user configuration data (like your graphics settings and keybindings) under %UserProfile%\AppData\Roaming.  Mods, assets, and other types of user content aren't really mentioned in Microsoft's guidelines, but the general rule is: if the user is likely to need to directly access the files, put them in \Saved Games.  Otherwise, if the files are just for the use of the application, put them in \Roaming.

It is *exceptionally* frustrating to me as a programmer how ignorant a lot of other developers are of these guidelines, and it is exceptionally frustrating to most gamers that this ignorance means that games spread their saved games across a variety of bizarre folders that are difficult to predict or find.

We should be, as a community, asking very hard questions of *every* developer too lazy or ignorant to use our hard drives correctly and follow the guidelines laid out for our operating systems. Why don't you link the guidelines? I'd be interested to see them. It's one of those things where it's distributed across a few documents, and just written into MSDN pages that describe special folders and whatnot.  But a few good references are:

http://blogs.msdn.com/b/patricka/archive/2010/03/18/where-should-i-store-my-data-and-configuration-files-if-i-target-multiple-os-versions.aspx

http://windows.microsoft.com/en-ca/windows-8/what-appdata-folder

https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/apps/hh464917.aspx (for mobile apps, but the same terminology is used: local and roaming)

The short of it is: AppData\Local is for anything that's specific to a single computer (like your browser's cache), AppData\Roaming is for anything specific to a user (like your browser's bookmarks file), and anything the user might want to directly access themselves, through Windows Explorer, should go under their profile folder.

It's also just common sense, right?  AppData is a hidden folder.  Users can't access it without changing a setting that the operating system will warn them against changing.  Why would you put something the user might want to access&amp;mdash;their saved games, which they might want to back up&amp;mdash;in AppData?  On the other hand, the OS provides a folder for each user which they put on the top of the start menu that has things like \Music, \Documents, and \Saved Games.

Imagine if iTunes stored your music in \Pictures.  That'd be weird, right?  Like, there's a \Music folder.  Seems kinda obvious.  Yet we give developers a free pass storing saved games&amp;mdash;generally binary-encoded and encrypted files&amp;mdash;in \Documents instead of in \Saved Games.

EDIT: I kept looking for a bit, and can't find that old document I'd read years ago describing the purposes of the user profile subfolders.  Maybe Microsoft deleted it because it was all self-evident stuff?  Or maybe I was just imagining it from reading the Known Folders API.  Either way, the MSDN docs are much more explicit about AppData\Local and AppData\Roaming. It's really funny then that minecraft, now owned by Microsoft, saves *everything* in the appdata folder.  Any modder will tell you that there are a *lot* of questionable decisions in Minecraft's programming. Even Skype saves your recieved files under AppData/Roaming. What's up with that?  Yeah, that one's weird.  Skype's got lots of problems, though, so it's not surprising.

I think the reasoning was probably "these are supposed to be ephemeral files that automatically get deleted after a short time, so it's basically like a data cache."  Like, the idea is supposed to be that Skype received files are either little image macros that you look at once and laugh, then discard, or something important that you manually save to a different directory. Are there any plans to give players or modders the ability to create new map types that use only custom assets?

This seems like a pretty natural way to handle mods that aim to emulate different time periods or regions not already represented in the game. Excellent idea, I love this. No idea if it's possible but this goes on the wishlist :) do you watch youtubers play cities skylines?  I prefer Twitch. 

Nah.. who am I kidding? Fine. I watch Sips play Cities: Skylines. There I said it :D Donuts or Bagels? Asking the important questions. But what about satan?  What about looting?  Faaaaaaaaaaaaaantastic.

So does that mean there's going to be more increases in the tree placing capability in the future? What is the favorite game you have ever played? \*puts on hat of shame*

Vanilla World of Warcraft. Don't be ashamed. My body still aches for the immersive feeling I got the first time I took a gryphon from Stormwind to Ironforge. Thief II: The Metal Age was and most likely will always be one of the defining moments in my gaming career. It was something simply awesome and different to anything I had ever played before. Steampunk, fantasy, medieval, bows, arrows, flash bombs! What more can a child want? Can we get a screenshot (or shots) of your personal biggest city? :) A camera pan of one of my favorite cities (the one which I also used in a stream during launch). It's not the biggest or fanciest but it has a special place in my cold heart: http://i.imgur.com/aBKgjt2.webm This here is my personal project that grew largest. I'm more a fan of smaller builds.

http://i.imgur.com/cUJRFw8.png What map is that? [Raerei Cove](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=406001868)? Correct! Hey wizzards!
Thanks a lot for the support from your side. This should be a standard to other game studio's. But anyways, to the questions:

1) As a dutchman, I'm fully into bikes as transportation. My city is even build arround the cyclepaths basicly. It's a great way of transportation as it doesn't produce pollution, noice or high maintenance cost. And those cyclepaths are all over the place and crosses the road via a bridge or a tunnel. We even have cyclepaths that passes under a [roundabout](http://www.fietsberaad.nl/library/repository/ontwerpvoorbeelden/rs_6%20Dronten,%20N23,%20rotonde%20met%20fietstunnel.jpg). These are great for connecting villages with schools, commercial area's and stations without having to lay down big highways and parkinglot's. It also keeps the city centre clean and safe to shop :). Is this something that we might see in C:S?

2) Another thing from where I live. Dikes and polders. I live in the world's biggest by human created piece of land that was water before, Flevoland. Now we are able to make polders, but we can't have boats going through. What I would like to see is water locks (Sluis in Dutch) so we can have different levels of water. Is this possible. Also a nice thing would be an bridge that can open for ships (traffic jam creator =D). What are your thoughts on this.

3) Roundabouts are it in this game. We all now that by now. But it can be better! We have so called "[Turbo-Roundabouts](http://bin.snmmd.nl/m/m1dycgpwhg6v.jpg)". This makes the traffic choose a lane for where they need to go, and they have to stay there. This way, people can travel at higher speeds through the roundabout and other traffic doesn't cross them. It is maybe a bit specific but can we maybe make intersections in the future as an object or so. So inporting a model en create road waypoints on it. That would be so nice.

4) And last, I find the industry to generic. When I want to make an industrial area in game, it needs to be on big roads, away from the city. But I would like to have small area's of industry in my city with warehouses, assembly and maintenance shops, workshops, logistic centres etc. But I can't because the "normal" industrial tool spawns big smelly factories to. Can you make an option so we can make those small warehouses that supply the shops in the city, the factory's outside the city and the big fat smelly ones at the edge of the area. That would make a pleasant difference :)

Thanks for reading this and keep up the good work!
(Oh, and give /u/totalymoo a cookie from me. He deserves it ^ ^ ) Hey guys!

Thank you for doing this AMA! I only have a simple question:

If paid mods were to come back onto the Steam Workshop, what would your standpoint on it be? My **personal** opinion is that the paid mods are a not-so-good thing. The way they were implemented was short-sighted. I think that TotalBiscuit and Gopher on YouTube have good insights to the whole ordeal and what went wrong. Things like Patreon supported modders are, to me at least, a better way to do it. Of course, one should read all the EULA etc texts carefully before engaging in these things just to be safe. &gt; read all the EULA etc texts

Lost me there Hello, and thanks for doing this AMA. My questions are more about working in the game industry than the game itself. 

* So what do you think is the best way to aproach companies such as Paradox Interactive or Colossal Order for possible work/apprenticeship opportunities? As a person who studies and dreams to be working in the industry one day I find it very hard to make contacts or land a job.
* How did you guys get started and what do you think is the best way to make a brake. (In other words "Saada jalka ovenvliin".) Considering a career in the industry. Hi there :)

* Apply via our application pages! 

http://career.paradoxplaza.com/jobs

http://www.colossalorder.fi/jobs.html

This is how we find most of our employees. In addition to that, volunteer work in industry related things (esports is how I started), do mods, participate in the community. Just hang around people that do games and one day it's plausible you find yourself one of us!

* Super broad question! It all depends on what your skills are. Just get real good at what you do and keep applying. Be open minded, challenge yourself and never give up. It's not as hard as it might seem, games companies always recruit.

Or become a programmer and get a job first day out of school ;) &gt; do mods, participate in the community.

I can confirm this helps. As of last year I'm a Paradox contractor, maintaining their wikis. It all started with me setting up a wiki for one of their games, which over a couple of years ballooned into nearly a dozen wikis, at which point Paradox decided that having official wikis would probably be a decent idea and bought mine and brought me on to continue administrating them. It has a less American vibe than sim city, but C:S is still a 'new city' simulator. Do you think it would be possible to make a city builder through history to allow player to create cities with an historical feel? Would it be too complex to create or not fun enough?
 I think a historical city builder would be fun. If it doesn't have to take you from ancient times to today I'd say it would be fun to work on a project like that :) If you have a team of 500+ people working for like 4-5 years, sure. 

It's not plausible with today's technology and industry mood, I don't reckon. Too big of a risk, too many design features that need to work in perfect harmony. Too much at stake if it turns out to be sub-par or "just OK".  The longer the timescale, the shallower the game most likely will turn out to be, unless the developer has unlimited time and money to develop it.

I'd wager it could be done but there would be challenges because the scope would be so large that testing alone would require a lot of time.

If it was something like from the late 1900s to modern times, it would be more plausible (CIM1 was from 1920s to 2020, after all). But even something like 150 years would require a lot of assets for the different eras, basically requiring artists to create 5-6 times the same assets, once for each era. Hey guys! I absolutely love your game, and I have two questions. 

1) What was your honest opinion when you knew that this game became a massive hit?

2) Any interest in making any sequels to Cities: Skylines in a few years? 1) When our guests at ParadoxCON 2015 skipped lunch/dinner/parties to play, and then asked for a copy to bring with them so they could play on their laptops whilst flying home.

2) Cities: Skylines is built as a platform to be expanded upon. It doesn't make sense to develop a sequel when there's so much fun stuff to add to your current game! Don't make me quote you on that in 5 years moo! ;) 1) Holy sh*t I love my job.
2) Sure, after the technology goes so much forward that it makes sense. Do you have plans to add acceleration and deceleration lanes on highways, because highways without them looks strange? What mod or assets did amaze you guys the most? The first really cool mod was definitely the First Person Camera and its further iterations. Do you have any plans to eventually improve the game's graphics by either improving the models or releasing higher resolution textures?  
It looks very good already, but when you zoom in a bit, it gets somewhat blurry, and I believe people are actually enjoying looking at things from very close up. Textures are one of the things that take up most of the VRAM with GPUs. Cities: Skylines has set specifications and we have to keep that in mind when creating assets for the game. We are using 1024x1024 and 2048x2048 maps in most cases with buildings and it is very unlikely that we can go much further what comes to the texture resolutions. Unless our programmers come up with some new magical features that allow twice the resolution with half the RAM needed, it's probably going to stay pretty much as is. Of course, we as artists try to achieve the sharpest possible result when modeling and texturing, pushing the UVs of the models to the limit to get that last bit of free texture space in full use. It's simple, Middle-Out!!! Do I sense Silicon Valley reference? Did you ever think the game would become such an instant hit? How does it feel seeing the community's positive reaction  (especially in contrast to the backlash EA got for SimCity)?  We knew it was a good game, but the insane reaction was far, far above anyone's expectations. I can't take any credit for the actual game but I had a warm feeling in my chest for several weeks after launch... actually it's not gone yet. :D UI: Scrolling sideways through assets is tedious, are there any plans to update UI to allow vertical scrolling with mousewheel (ie. scrolling rows instead of columns)? This would drastically improve usability of build menus for those with lots of workshop assets. How hard was parallel programing this game? Oh hello! /u/TotalyMoo you are really cute :O
Question time: When would the cargo train station bug on left hand drive be fixed? And why do my cims hate living by the water (regarding low land value)? It's in our bugtracker, I can say that much. CO are probably better up to date on what's being actively worked on when it comes to bugs, as they do their thang. 

*Also, oh you ~* I've got two questions:

1. The European buildings are only north-western European ones. Do you have any plans to add southern European buildings (e.g. from Italy) or eastern European buildings (e.g. from Russia)?

2. Currently, the European buildings are only high-density. It looks very weird when a city starts off with modern, American-looking suburban houses and shops, and then gets old European-style buildings. Why didn't you add some smaller European wall-to-wall buildings (such as [these houses](http://www.eua.be/Libraries/EQAF_2012/tallinn_old_town.sflb.ashx) in Tallinn or [these row houses](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/e/e7/Street_of_terraced_housing.jpg) which are very common in Britain)? Additionally, are there any plans to add these? HI All!

Besides Colossal Order games, of course, what games are your favorite to play? What are you favorite games from 20 years ago? Favorite right now: GTA V (although just finished!)

20 years ago: I... I was one year old. I reckon I liked playing with my dad's old legos.  Theme Park! GTA V Online, I just love to customize my character, get new contact lenses and clothes and tune my American muscle cars! Also, the director mode is just awesome!

I think I was still playing Doom 2 (1995 was after Doom 2 was released but before Duke Nukem 3D...). Oh, and Mortal Kombat 2. I played a lot of action games back then (Tomb Raider 1 was around the corner, too!). Will you ever add dinosaurs to the game? If our brand manager has his way, yes.

... so probably not, sorry :( Now that you are done with what you promised to deliver, whats next in your checklist? (DLC/expansion/update) /u/co_martsu Summer vacation. More improvements to both the game and the modding tools. New content/features. 

Not necessarily in that order. Hey guys, massive Paradox fan here!

First off, congrats on the success of Cities: Skylines.

My question is, what caused you to shift from a franchise limited to only transportation simulation like Cities in Motion, to this massive city simulator? Hey there! Thanks for your support :)

As far as I am aware CO have always wanted to do a city simulator/builder, and so have we at Paradox. Super big fans of the genre and all that. Yet when we started working together back in the day it simply wasn't the right time to do it. After the interesting reaction to the latest SimCity I reckon there was an "aha" moment at both companies that maybe it was our time to shine... and so it was!

/u/co_martsu can probably shine a lot more light on this question. I can only answer for Colossal Order: a city builder is something we have always wanted to develop. Love our first games but Cities: Skylines has been the long term goal from the beginning. Do you guys have any feature that you're "We would love to implement that but we don't know how to do it/do it and still make it fun".

Also, what are you guys currently playing? (it can the mobile, pc, console) For the first question - Kaiju defense mode with Oculus Rift support.

Second - Witcher 3, Hearthstone, Skylines :) I'm just putting this out here, but I would totally buy the shit out of the Kaiju defense mode expansion. Cities: Racing where you spawn a vehicle and drive in a city you've created, racing against bots or other players in a 8-player urban car-extravaganza. It would definitely be fun but I'm not sure if it would be technically feasible to do it on top of a game like Cities: Skylines. :D

Currently playing GTA V: Online. Are there any plans to look at increases to some or all of the internal limits with regard to network\building\zone related objects? The ~32k limits seem to have been hit by some even in just 9 titles, let alone 25 tile ones. Tunnels: Can we get an update that allows them to go straight (vertically level) in to side of mountain with more traditional arch (squared or rounded) entrance? Currently we have to always burrow downwards, which is a very rare occurrence for smaller tunnels IRL. Have you pressed /r/thebutton yet? Yes, proud 60s puritan here.  59s here. Pressed it on April 1st without knowing anything about it. Oh well. Many early towns formed along rail stations or shipping routes, but the ability to use these transit options doesn't appear until much later in the game.  Will we see any changes to the 'technology tree' available as a city levels up? There are no plans at the moment to change how the city develops, especially since we are talking about modern cities rather than cities that formed during many centuries. 1.  Are we going to be able to edit a new game's "template" -- i.e. the out of bounds area?  Like, if I start a new game I'd like to move the incoming highways.  Also if you get too close to edge then you can accidentally change the direction of highways but not undo or fix that -- meaning, you can goof up and end up with all outgoing and no incoming highways.  

2.  Are you going to enable tighter snap to grid for game so it is like the asset tool grid?  To have a way to toggle the snap before you lay down a road would be great.  

3.  Are you going to add ability to increase total number of roads and such or will it break the engine?  I know there is a limit to what some computers can handle but is there a way to have something like "phasing" to conserve resources? 

Bonus question:  Can you all put an alarm clock in Chirper because yesterday before sunset I got on for 45 minutes, and then it was sunrise and 12 hours later IRL and I wish I could say that was the first time but that would be a lie.  Seriously, what an amazing game.  There are plenty of little bugs and glitches as you know and a couple of them can ruin a game if you are a doofus and don't save a backup (not gonna say who does that but that person also accidentally plays for 12 hours).  But your game is already one of the greatest of all time, just so far above and beyond my biggest hopes for a SimCity 4 follow up.  

Truly Cities Skylines is the game of the year and possibly one of the three or four games of all time, right now as is.  Just a few wish list tweaks that's all.  

Can't  stress how great your game is for me personally.  I am disabled, retired, house bound, mobility impaired, never was an extrovert even in my old life.  Can't travel much anymore and then along comes your game and it frees me from my physical boundaries and now I can make my own travel destinations on my giant monitor (repurposed 46" HD 1080 TV, how awesome is that).  Truly has already improved my quality of life.  Well except the staying up till sunrise part heheh.  

Thank you.  Bravo.

  Are there plans to make a really big airport like New York JFK or Amsterdam Airport Schiphol? 

Are there also plans for big ports like the port of Rotterdam? 

Are you guys going to put subsidies for solar power and such in the game?

Are you guys going to put banks info the game that are state-owned (so the player owns the bank)? Hi! I really enjoyed Cities in Motion and whilst playing Cities Skylines I would love to have control over public transport. Are you interested in adding some of the detailed model CiM has to Cities Skylines? It's unlikely that we would want to go to the same level of micromanagement but expanding the options for public transportation is something we are looking to do in the future. Hello!

1. Will there be weather effects in the game?

2. Do you plan to improve the behavior of the citizens?
Drivers of are not able bypass the traffic jams. Despite congestion, they continue to move in the same direction. Despite the fact that you can drive around this traffic jam it will save the time spent on the road.

P.S.
Excuse my bad English. So on fb a few days ago there was a picture of a busy train station. Where is this in game? is this a train station that's going to be released soon or was it just a custom asset from workshop? That was a custom asset made by one of our wonderful modders :) Hey guys. A question about the future of sim games. Do you think we'll mostly be seeing sandbox-style sim games, or is there still room for more sim games with a more traditional objective and victory conditions? I honestly hope for both. Sandbox is awesome for the creative types, yet the best memories I have from city builders is playing the campaign in Cleopatra and Caesar III. Will there be elevated trainstations and underground train stations? (i dont mean Metro, i am meaning the normal Railways, so that we can build a train station at a elevated Piece of Railroad).
Are you working at improving the Traffic AI? No elevated/underground train stations planned currently. Traffic AI is a whole lot of work if and when we go touch it so it's not going to have any major changes any time soon.  Hey guys, thanks for the update.
I am a little bit curious, since the wall to wall buildings are not "real" wall to wall, especially in corners, why is that?
What will be the plans for the future? (Trams ?? :D)

Modding: How do I prevent default vehicles to spawn? I downloaded a new bus and don't want the default one to spawn anymore.
Same with existing vehicles - I don't like the donut van, the hotdog van, the bugspray van ... it's looking like a town of freaks. How do I prevent them from spawning? You monster :&lt;

I don't know if you can prevent them of spawning. Will have to check with the team. Whats the main idea behind adding wall-to-wall buildings as a map feature rather than a policy? /u/henkkaart
 One of the biggest reasons is to not overload the graphical asset amount. The European buildings add quite a few new assets and each asset takes a chunk of the VRAM and to make sure the game works on the lower end graphics cards, we decided to put the European buildings in a separate set, rather than include all of them in the vanilla set and risk getting lower end machines to not work. Basically we have to keep in mind the specs given to the game that we don't go overboard, especially since this update was for everyone and not something you "can opt out" i.e. if you see a DLC for a game and see that the requirements are greater than your machine can handle, you can choose not to buy it to avoid it affecting the gameplay. Did you actively seek to correct the problems of SimCity while developing Cities:Skylines? No. We were creating our own game. Hello.

awesome new patch, with a few hickups here and there, but here's my (first xD) question:

It seems you forgot about adding tunnels for pedestrian path too, which is a pity as you had the code for it... Is it possible to make it work through the modding API or could you add it with a small patch? Whats the best way to explain what you are doing to people? I have tried to explain the solar sail to a few friends/family and they all think I am making it up as they remember learning that light has no mass in school. How can we educate people about your project? Thanks for doing this AMA. Photons (particles of light) have no momentum, but they are pure energy, and they have momentum. So, in the vacuum of space, we can design a very low mass spacecraft with a very large reflective area, and it will get a continuous push. Try this: E = mc**2. Divided both sides by c. You end up with an expression for momentum: "mc". It's not magic; it's science. &gt;  (particles of light) have no momentum, but they are pure energy, and they have momentum.

For anyone confused, that first momentum should be "mass". You just corrected Bill Nye, how do you feel? I'm going to assume it was a mistake by Victoria or whoever was dictating. :) [deleted] Smart, and humble too! Look at you being a good person on the internet. High five! Wow, thanks. I was totally confused. Yup, so was I, thought I was missing something. Actually, there's another way to look at this.

Momentum normally comes in 3 components, x, y and z; Its a vector of 3 components corresponding to the 3 dimensions of space.

Now imagine Momentum now in 4 dimensions, 3 space + 1 time. Now momentum has 4 components! A photon has zero momentum in the normal 3 spatial dimensions (being massless, it cannot have any momentum with form p=mv) , but it has a non zero momentum in its "time" momentum. This is how a photon has momentum without having mass, because the temporal momentum depends on the energy of the photon, and not the mass. 

The momentum of a photon is effectively hidden, until it is reflected or absorbed, and has to transfer that momentum to the object it hit. The temporal momentum is in fact the quantity E/c, Energy/speed of light. 

E here is NOT equals to mc^2, rather h*v*, h is the [Planck constant](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planck_constant) 6.6\*10^(-34) Js, and v is the frequency of the light, in hertz.  I think he means light particles have no *mass*... but they have momentum. Hi, Bill. Provided that the test is successful, what can we hope for in terms of long-term application of solar sails for space flight, and how would this work for flight outside of our solar system, should we reach that point? In the Great Big Hugely Gigantic Picture, we could someday beam a laser from, say, the far side of the Moon and push a solar sail to Proxima Centuri. It's an idea so crazy, it just might work. See you at the launch in a few hundred years. You seem very confident you'll be around to see the launch! Are you hiding anti-aging atoms from us? Nice try Dr. Oz THESE MAGIC ANTI AGING FAT BURNERS WILL BLOW YOUR MIND 
Edit: I did not tie my name on this product  MORTALS HATE HIM!  nah nah, he'll just have his brain implanted into a simian meat-slave **I VOLUNTEER!** I was thinking in a Futurama-style head in a jar. The great thing about laser-pushed solar sails is that there's no theoretical limit to how close they could get to lightspeed.  And in practice, their design is not limited by the Tsiolkovsky rocket equation's restrictions on spacecraft carrying their own fuel. Sooooo.. how do you stop? Just install a laser at Proxima Centauri pointed at the light sail to arrest the speed... You're crazy. There are tug crafts operated by the Proxima Centauri Port Authority. Just aerobrake when you get there. They nerfed the re-entry heating in the latest patch. How many laws of physics am I ignoring when I ask "why can't you just mount the laser on the spacecraft and point it at the sails"? Because the light emitted from the laser pushes it backwards. It's basically the same concept as trying to move a sailboat with a fan mounted to the boat.

EDIT: Actually, I was slightly mistaken. If the sails were 100% reflective, then it would move forward. It wouldn't go as fast as mounting the laser far away, though, and it would be the same as if you mounted the laser backwards. Going back to the sailboat analogy, it would be like replacing the sail with a U-shaped tube that blew all the air backwards. For one thing, you'd have to carry all the fuel for running the laser on the ship.  No reason to carry all that weight if the laser can just as easily be mounted planetside. momentum is conserved so in that case might you just as well just point the laser backwards? What do you think of Tesla's powerwall? It deserves a new single from Oasis. It's a good idea. Energy storage is the key to humankind's future. Tesla has repurposed their car batteries for home energy storage. I have 4 kilowatts of solar panels. With these batteries, I could keep my food cold for a few days off the grid. It's a good start on a world changing idea. New single from Oasis scientifically confirmed. I'd just love to see Noel approached with this question.

"So rumor has it you'll be reuniting with Liam and Gem to release a new single in honor of Tesla's powerwall.  Care to comment?"

"Well if Bill Nye said we're doing it then we better fucking do it, ay?" I love how you responded to the Oasis comment and not the original question.  Bill Nye, Oasis guy.  Victoria probably accidentally clicked Reply on the wrong comment. She knows what shes doing. There are no accidents here. &gt; It deserves a new single from Oasis.

&gt;It's a good idea

Well done
 Cuz maybay You're gonna be the wall that saves meee...

Some money on power bills. And that bill will fall...cuz of my powerwalllll What is your opinion on the supposed EM warp drive that NASA accidentally created? Very, very skeptical. BTW, our LightSail spacecraft will launch on the same rocket with Air Force's X37-b formerly secret spaceship. Coincidence? Billuminati confirm Man, if the Bill Nye fan club isn't called the Billuminati, that's a missed opportunity. BilluminNyeti Sounds russian.   cyka billuminyeti blyat! rash b no stop Davai AVP I know what this says because I play DotA 2. Lol taught me more Spanish and polish

MOBA's: the future of linguistics and misery simulators If the Vulcans didn't show up immediately after the test to introduce themselves it didn't happen.   Well, we didn't actauly go faster than light, so we don't have warp technology. At most, we stumbled appon it. The Valcans will show up after the first successful test of the faster than light mechanism. Hi mate. Whenever that tv/vcr stand on wheels entered the room I knew it was Bill Nye time.  What's the coolest experiment I can do at home with my kids? It depends how old they are. Use mirrors to redirect the infrared beam from a one of your remote controls. Beam on! any way to make the beam visible? I kind of figured kids aren't that interested in things adults tell them, without giving them the option to see the results / differences  
edit: I guess you could redirect the beam around corners, if thats what you mean ;-)  You can make it visible with a web camera. thanks mate You can't see the beam, but if you look through your camera phone, you can see the little LED turn on. House tools can't see red beams.  Fucking bravo If there were chalk/dust/spray in the air, a camera would be able to see the beam, yes?  Just tried it, and yes:

  http://i.imgur.com/Kmi9fou.png

  I'm now a [10] because of science :/

  Edit:  here's the light without anything in the air http://i.imgur.com/AXZvEvZ.png Dank sciencing. Bill Nye Tho would be proud. I just tried this with both of my remotes and my iphone, nothing happened, did I miss something? Sometimes the back camera on newer phones has an IR filter, try using the front camera. Fuck yeah, Jim! Front camera confirmed! I use the camera on my phone. You can check if the batteries are dead that way. I love you Bill. Username checks out... Poke a hole in the side of a clear jug near the bottom. Tape the hole shut. Fill the jug with water. Place the jug on the edge of a table and place a bucket on the floor to catch the water. Get a laser pointer. Be careful because it is a laser pointer. Take off the tape and shoot the laser through the jug on the other side and through the hole.

What happens is you basically created a fiber optic cable out of water. The laser will bounce off the 'edges' of the water down into the bucket. You will see the light from the laser in the bottom of the bucket. This is a really simple and fun way to explain how fiber optics work. You jut blew my freaking mind. There's a video of this from the guy who did the why soda cans have the perfect design.  works better with propylene glycol and a little [cream](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0MwMkBET_5I)er  word let me just grab my propylene glycol and creme  
 I'm gonna do this, but instead it's a gravity bong!
 I believe it would be called a waterfall. Don't go chasing it. So when you did that debate last year with that creationist in KY, you said you pulled over to the side of the road and picked up a fossil.

...did you seriously just pull over in a random place and find that? If that's true I'm sincerely jealous of your fossil finding abilities. If you're on route 65 or 71 watch for a cut, a place where crews have blasted a path through the limestone. Stop the car. Walk to the side of the road, and look around. Pick up a brick sized piece of rock. You'll find the barnacle sized "small shellies." "Cut in the hill" is the location where they carved through a large hill in northern Ky on I-75/I-71 that leads down to the Ohio river crossing into Cincinnati.  Finding fossils in southern ohio and northern Kentucky is very easy. most creek beds and areas where the roads cut through will have dozens of "small shellies" Bill describes here as well as trilobites and other small fossils. You can find fossils just about everywhere! Fossils aren't as rare as people think. If you see an outcrop you can safely approach, go look at it. If it's limestone, sandstone, mudstone, or shale, take some time to look through it and you can probably find something if you're in the right age/area of fossil deposits!  True that. Anyone who lives in CA on the coast where there are primarily sedimentary rocks you can find fossils damn near everywhere on the beach, in the cliffs and in the hills all the way up to the highest mountain ranges that used to be the ocean floor millions of years ago. My buddy found a fossilized crab claw when we were hiking up above 2000ft last month. Geology rocks! 
&gt;"geology rocks"
:)  Hola, Mr. Science Guy,

I am a fourth grade teacher to 26 planetary buffs! We want to know - what advice do you have for budding astrophysicists/ future planetary society members? 
- MrsRandCo Learn that method: Observe, Hypothesize, Test, Compare what you expected to happen with what did happen. Then, I'm not kidding, start to have letters represent numbers. Science is based on measurements. Algebra is a key to your future. Science Rules!! *BILL, BILL, BILL, BILL, BILL* BILL NYE THE SCIENCE GUY *inertia is a property of matter* I'm geeking out. He said the thing!  Ohmygodohmygodohmygod [there it is! He said it!](http://i.ytimg.com/vi/7u0wg3t6osM/hqdefault.jpg) Non-American here, what's the thing? Nye said "science rules!" Its a very common phrase in his TV show where he'd explain science to kids. We all grew up with this quote and many others. It's like, on one hand I'm bitter because I didn't learn about Nye until I was in High School but I'm also old enough to have grown up watching Mr. Wizard instead. 

And I thought that old dude was pretty dope.  Hi Bill! I'm graduating from Cornell in a little under two weeks. What should I make it a priority to do before I leave Ithaca? Swim in the gorge one more time.
 ithaca is gorges Ahh, I'm graduating in 2 weeks and I haven't done this yet.

So much to do on my bucket list, but so little time due to finals and projects.

But I do spend the vast majority of my time on campus in Rhodes, under your Solar Noon Clock, which is always awesome  [deleted] &gt; Ithaca  
  
Or go on a Road Trip to Texas Austin, Massachusetts?  I thought it was Boston, not Austin? Yeah that's what I said. Boston, Massachusetts I'm a simple man with a simple question:

How possible would it be to solar power a bow tie? Yes, I do it all the time. We don't see things; we see light bouncing off of things. So whenever a bowtie is out in sunlight, its image is powered by the Sun. If you want to put small solar panels on a bowtie and spin a propellor on your head, well, knock yourself out. When you're wearing a solar-powered propeller on your head, knocking yourself out becomes a very likely scenario.   Bill said it was okay... I'm doing it! As the CEO of the Planetary Society, I'm curious to know you future hopes for the organization? Future space club in 2142? I believe the Society with its members and community can convince citizens of Earth to make sure we fund missions to look for signs of life on other worlds, especially Mars and Europa. Such a discovery would utterly change this world. Our LightSail launch next week is part of that big idea effort. Planetary Science Rules! Hey Bill! If you could safely witness any historical event, where would you go? Hi, Bill! So glad I have another shot at this.   
  
I saw your segment recently on The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore. On it, you said that from a scientific standpoint, theres no such thing as race, and what does in fact exist is better classified as tribalism. So my question is, would it behoove the human race to look at moral issues from a scientific perspective? Also, are there certain matters of moral relevance science shouldn't attempt to wrangle? 

Thanks for doing this! O wouldn't it be great, if everyone on Earth understood that we are, in fact, all one species. It feels like that would be a great step toward all of us getting along with each other. We are one species. It's provable. It's science.  [This is essentially Bill Nye every time he's trying to debate a topic that has been scientifically proven but is still receiving a lot of opposition.](http://i.imgur.com/pb1lMs8.png) Bill looks like a thug. &gt; Bill ~~looks like~~ is a thug.

 [You're damn right he is](http://i.imgur.com/48iDflp.jpg) This was so good I saved it.

Thug Lyfe Bill Nye owning bitches and teaching evolution since the birth of Christ. He's mad because he forgot his bow ties at home. Hi, Bill! We loved you in New York. Two questions.

1: In your book, "Undeniable", you expressed a great suspicion of GMOs, particularly in agriculture. To quote the chapter: "If you're asking me, we should stop introducing genes from one species into another, while at the same time taking full advantage of our ability to understand the genome of any organism..."

In an interview you just gave to the Huffington Post after a visit with Monsanto, you claimed this - "My take on it now is genetically modified food is actually, in general, -- genetically modified plants, in general, -- are not only not harmful, they're actually a great benefit. However, you can't just go planting enormous monocultures and killing everything and expect the ecosystems to take it"

I'm glad that you're taking an open-mind approach to this, but could you explain what exactly brought on the change in opinion? I've heard that you plan on revising your book, is that true?

2: What are the odds of me taking an internship at The Planetary Society this summer? I'd love to see my brick in the lobby. :) I looked into it further. The key for me is the very, very rigorous programs to ensure ecosystem safety, specifically The Coordinated Framework with the Dept. of Agriculture. We can assay a genome 10 million 10EE*07 times faster than we used to. Wild.
 ....so that's a 'no' to the internship? *read by Bill Nye at 11:45am*  &gt; 10EE*07

I'd say his odds are one in whatever that number is. So you're tellin me there's a chance... Well he hasn't *technically* answered yet, so there still might be a chance. Well played! I was so fascinated by your detailed response I didn't even notice the sidestep around his internship!  Do you have any advice on what we should tell our family/friends if they continue to deny climate change as well as other scientific issues like evolution? Ask them if they would trust people who denied a connection between cigarette smoking and lung cancer. Climate change and humans causing it is scientifically a little better established than cigarettes and cancer. Well damn.  Time to give my mom a phone call. Do you think you have a chance in hell when she smells of beef brisket and Pall Malls? i resemble that remark... [Quasi-source](http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/climate-risks-as-conclusive-as-link-between-smoking-and-lung-cancer/). 

Anyone have anything better? I'm on mobile but I'd love to have a source on this I could use in the future if need be!

Edit: Why the downvotes? I'm glad Bill is taking the time to answer questions rather than scour for sources the thousands of us are more than capable of scrounging up. I just thought I'd provide a source for it, but wanted to know if there were a better source than Scientific American. Jeepers, Reddit.  There's an entire book about it called _The Merchants of Doubt_ Hey Bill,
Not related... Do you ever sing the theme to yourself? I'm almost positive he hates it hahah *Science rules!* BILL

BILL

BILL

BILL Inertia is a property of matter Bill bill Bill, Bill bill bill bill bill Biiiiiilllllllll Nyyyyyyyeeeeeee the science guy Hi Bill!

As you probably know, Chipotle recently removed all Genetically Modified Ingredients from their food.

Is this a setback when it comes to educating the public on the potential benefits of GMOs? 

Or is Chipotle's decision valid, in that we should still be wary of GMOs?  Removing GMOs seems like a marketing idea. Let's see if it works. If they can provide the quality that customers want at the price customers want, well, that's the free market at work. Consumers may find that they prefer vegetables that have more flavor and more nutritional value from modified crops, in which case Chipotle may have to change back or get outcompeted. Also, if other companies are able to raise more food on less land, they may do an end-run around Chipotle's marketing by showing that their crops actually have a lower environmental impact. Let's all stay tuned. Thanks for the answer Bill! My thoughts are Chipotle will have to eventually change back to GMOs in order to stay competitive. It'll be interesting to see how it plays out! They won't have to say they are. They'll just no longer claim their food doesn't contain ingredients from GMOs. Yep, they'll do it quietly. That's the ticket. And it'll end up on a blog hours later.

10 secrets Chipotle doesn't want you to know! This is the true value of a scientifically educated person. Just 10 years or so ago you released a video of your skepticism towards GMO's, back when little was known. Now that its been shown that GMO's are not only safe, but better, you have gotten over your potential bias and accepted the evidence. You dont have to go back 10 years ago. He argued against GMOs on reddit. Bill publicly changed his mind on GMO this past March and became a supporter. He also announced he will rewrite a chapter in his book on GMO due to this. Yeah for science. 
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2015/05/11/bill-nye-gmos-changed-mind_n_7245092.html Hey Bill, huge fan.

I've noticed there have been a few pics floating around of you and Alton Brown hanging out. As a chef and nerd, I now have several questions:

1)How do you feel about Molecular Gastronomy as a movement? Have you eaten at places like Alinea, WD-50, or the Fat Duck before?

2)Any chance of you and Alton doing a food science show together? Because that would be at least 15 kinds of epic. I might eat a wooden door if Alton Brown and Bill Nye did a cooking show together How would you go about doing it, given you had 365 days to accomplish the task? Hey Bill! What do you think of Google's driverless car? Do you think it's a good step forward, or should we be focusing our efforts on other things? I can imagine a future with cities having nothing but electric driverless cars. You'd call for an automated taxi from your wrist-held device. There would very few car wrecks, and cities would be quieter and cleaner. Those of us, who really want to drive, can party on out there on the open roads. Driverlessness will be more common than airplane autopilots.
 I mention this occasionally, but I won't be surprised if insurance groups or city authorities actually moved to ban or limit the use of manual cars once driverless technology is both proven and readily available.

I expect, quite possibly in my lifetime, to see automatic-only cars, to see stricter licensing for the use of manual-equipped cars, or to see insurance premiums for cars equipped for manual driving skyrocket. Hello! What format will the LightSail selfies be taken to space in? Are you taking the files or inscribing every image on a microchip like OSIRIS-Rex? We're going old school -- files on a mini-DVD. That seemed hip back when we designed the spacecraft in 2009, and rather than re-engineering things for a microchip, we opted for the simple solution. Do you intend to "re-engineer things for a microchip" for your 2016 flight? The selfies to space are for the 2016 flight. The first LightSail is already boxed up for launch at the Cape! Hello Bill Nye! Thank you for doing this AMA!

Quite recently, prominent figures such as Stephen Hawking, Bill Gates, Elon Musk, Steve Wozniak and many more have raised concerns about what's known as [artificial superintelligence](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superintelligence) (or ASI for short) triggered by professor [Nick Bostrm's](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nick_Bostrom) 2014 book [Superintelligence: Paths, Dangers, Strategies](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superintelligence:_Paths,_Dangers,_Strategies).

My questions are:

* Are you acquainted with the concept of [existential risk](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_catastrophic_risk) and superintelligence, and of the truly enormous importance that we avoid existential threats?
* As a prominent public figure working on important issues, mightn't you use your influence to raise awareness of this issue, in which inconceivable expected utility functions are involved, which by far outstrip the importance of preventing climate change from doing too much harm, and bringing skepticism and science to the public?

Thanks for your time :)

Here are some excellent resources for understanding more about this:

* A very popular two part series ([1](http://waitbutwhy.com/2015/01/artificial-intelligence-revolution-1.html), [2](http://waitbutwhy.com/2015/01/artificial-intelligence-revolution-2.html)) going in depth on superintelligence in a very pedagogical way.

* [Nick Bostrm's website](http://www.nickbostrom.com), where you can find all his papers.

* Nick Bostrm's TED Talks ([1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yd9cf_vLviI),[2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P0Nf3TcMiHo),[3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MnT1xgZgkpk)) 

 What was one of the greatest engineering problems that you had to overcome when designing or creating the light sail?  This is an excellent question, but a better question would be: What challenges have we NOT had to overcome?

The biggest problem since I've been working for TPS was the radio. We kept frying amplifiers on the radio board, and getting very weak signals during testing. It was eventually traced to a short in one of the pins on the circuit board.  Hello Bill. I love your work.

Given that NASA had their "Sunjammer" project back in 2010 - 2013 and they ultimately abandoned it, why will this LightSail project be superior?

It's exciting science, it just never seems to (literally) get off the ground.

ad We believe we have solved the sail deployment problem. NASA's Nanosail-D drag spacecraft deployed its sail, but only after about six weeks of mystery. It was probably hung up somehow mechanically, but after hundreds of orbits, heating and cooling shook it loose. NASA's Sunjammer never gained the backing and funding it would have needed. Then, Sunjammer also is a Pokemon character, but I'm pretty sure that's a separate problem. Only on Reddit will I find Bill Nye The Science Guy referencing Pokemon.

 What kind of capabilities does the software running on the lightsail craft have? Is it able to figure out tacking and angles on its own? Or are you sending it simple commands similar to how a radio controlled car or airplane here on earth would work?

How did you test the lightsail manipulation systems (be they automated or human) in simulations?

Can you add anything else about this lower level aspect of how the navigations of the craft is to work? The software is Linux-based. I just recently learned that, providing we have a stable link, we can actually SSH into the spacecraft, which I find very cool. 

The control sequences are automated. There are sun sensors that locate the sun and tack based on that.

In simulations, we use a LightSail clone called BenchSat -- it's an acrylic-mounted, deconstructed version of the flight unit. It even has a working motor for the sail deployment system that spins. 
 I want to SSH into a satellite  ssh in, write and execute the worlds first "Hello Planet" program.   Very cool!

Do you have anything to give the benchsat's sun sensors simulated data? or do you just shine a flashlight on them? ;) They pick up the lights in the room, actually!  Over the next 10-20 years could light sails perceivably be used for bigger payloads than CubeSats or would the Thrust/Weight ratio not be significant enough for it to be efficient? 

Edit: reworded a bit. thanks /u/nugohs

Edit 2: wow, "trust" took me way too long to spot They definitely could, providing you have a thin and large enough sail (on the order of miles of sail material). NASA was seriously considering this in the late 70s/early 80s to send a spacecraft to Halley's Comet. Our co-founders, Bruce Murray and Louis Friedman, were a part of the project at JPL. 

I wrote a story about this here, check it out:
http://sail.planetary.org/story-part-1.html

 You can never have too much trust in sound engineering. Hello Bill, how much does solar activity affects the performance of the sail? Is it a problem or is it just fine however the sun is behaving? Thanks. A noisome problem may arise, if solar activity renders the Earth's atmosphere a little bigger. Sometimes the solar wind makes our atmosphere swell. If this happens next month, we may get dragged down sooner than we hope. Right now, the Sun seems just fine. All is cool, in this case literally. Hi Bill,
have you seen the Epic Rap Battles of History featuring you? Any thoughts on that? [Here's his answer to this question from his last AMA.](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2le34s/bill_nye_undeniably_back_ama/cltx3mo?context=1)
&gt; Let's face it, *I* won.
&gt; 
&gt; He's *only* Isaac Newton. 
&gt; 

[Link](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2le34s/bill_nye_undeniably_back_ama/cltx3mo?context=1) [deleted] For the lazy (and Bill): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8yis7GzlXNM Mr. Nye,

I have a six year old boy. I have tried to get him interested in why things happen not just "oh cool" and going back to doing whatever he was doing.  

Do you have any tips for how to help parents ignite the 'love of why?' in children? With peer review under threat and funding to NIH, NSF, and NASA's earth science division under constant fire, we need scientists in public office here in America now more than ever. Why don't they run and how can we change that? Because politics is a nasty business. The only people who run for office are power-hungry narcissists or those who *really* feel they need to make a difference in the world. It's tough lasting through the shit-fest that is politics if you don't have a love of power. Most scientists care much more about - well - science than power.

How do you change that? I don't know kill all power-hungry sociopaths?

Edit: You know who *is* and example of scientist turned politician? Bill Foster. He used to do particle physics at Fermi LAB but is now a representative in Illinois. He *finally* got into the house committee on science this year, which is traditionally stacked by global warming deniers. Rush Holt is/was a great example as well! He actually beat IBM's Watson when he went to DC to take on members of Congress! Thanks for doing this AMA! I have two questions. 
1. What do You hope to acomplish with the first 2 launches of lightsail? 
2. Can solar sailing be realistically applied to moving large spacecraft? Hello!

For the first flight, launching May 20, we are only attempting to test out the sail deployment sequence, which will validate the ability to package and deploy a solar sail from a small spacecraft. 

For the second flight in 2016, we'll do the same, but fly high enough above the atmosphere to attempt true solar sailing. We'll validate that by attempting to change the inclination of our orbit.

In theory, solar sailing can be applied to any spacecraft. The bigger and thinner the sail, the better performance you get.

 How is direction changed in the sail? Is it thrusters, angle change or magic? My vote is magic. Also, is there a speed limit to the craft?  We have two ACS components for the 2016 flight: electromagnetic torque rods and a single momentum wheel (there isn't a wheel on the 2015 craft). If you consider magnets magic (and I think the Insane Clown Posse does), then you'll like torque rods. They produce electrical charges, turning them into magnets, which interact with Earth's magnetic field to rotate the spacecraft.


   So you're telling me these are magic rods?  
 Hi Bill!

I'm only familiar with the basics of the technology behind LightSail, so forgive me if this is a silly question, but what do you think are the long term applications of this sort of technology? Do you see it moving beyond powering CubeSats and moving on to even bigger uses? The biggest advancement of LightSail is the CubeSat aspect -- the ability to pack a 32-square-meter sail inside a spacecraft the size of a loaf of bread. CubeSats need propulsion to expand their capabilities in Earth orbit and beyond. Solar sailing is one possibility for that.

 LightSailwill demonstrate that we can greatly reduce the cost of missons to other worlds in our Solar System, e.g. the Moon and Mars. It will be another step in democratizing space. It will enable more of us to learn more about what's up up there. Hi Bill,

Big fan!  How do you normally decompress after a stressful day? What else?  I do an AMA... [deleted] Hi Bill, if you had to pick a successor to the Science guy title for a spin off of your TV series who would you pick? In retrospect, do you think taking on Ken Ham on his own turf was a good idea? And do you believe you accomplished what you may have wanted to? Hi Bill,

What are your thoughts on Common Core and the current state of standardized testing in the United States? You undoubtably greatly influenced my generation, man. I speak for us all when I say thank you! I grew watching your show.  I'm curious; what scientific quandary baffles you the most today? In other words what is the unanswerable question that you ponder more than the others. Hey Bill! What are your thoughts on the third party company Mars One trying to send people to Mars to colonize it? Why are you a moderator of /r/CODCIRCLEJERK? Bill what's your favorite movie?  Ever changing. I still like Singin' in the Rain. I loved Big Hero 6... Yes big hero 6 was awesome! I liked that it showed young kids that sceince is cool! Why isn't NASA investigating solar sails? They are, and they're watching LightSail closely. Check out NEA Scout and Lunar Flashlight -- two CubeSat solar sails launching on the first flight of the Space Launch System. If you could have one question completely answered, what would it be? BILL BILL BILL BILL

I'm going to be 28 in a few days. Can I reasonably expect to see humans land on Mars before I'm dead? 
 When you going to die? RIP OP All the good ones die at 27 What is the maximum potential rate of acceleration of this first prototype solar sail? 
How does the ratio of size to acceleration potential factor in to why the current size was chosen, and how will it affect the decision to make sails of a particular size in future solar sails? The original specifications were 0.06 mm per second^2. Assuming you were in open space in constant sunlight:

In one month, that's a speed change of 158 m/s, or 353 mph.
In one year, that's a speed increase of 1.9 km/s, or 4233 mph.

I'm not sure about the decisions behind the original design, but the limiting factor is how much sail we can pack into the CubeSat, and how much stress the deployment booms can handle without bowing significantly. 



 Hi Bill!

Currently I'm taking classes for Biology and Chemistry and I seem to be developing a soft spot for evolution and genetics. do you think you can point me in the right direction?

And about the Lightsail, while we're on the topic of space travel, what are your expectations for extraterrestrial life? We at the Planetary Society work very hard to keep NASA on track. If we were to discover evidence of life on Mars, it would change the world. We want to keep the sequence of missions in the queue. Once in a while, it seems they lose sight of that big picture. We also are working for a humans orbiting Mars mission in 2033. There has to be life farther and deeper in space. We could go next to Europa, where there's twice as much seawater as we have on Earth. Have you seen Interstellar?  Did you like it? Hey Bill, who would you want to play you in a film about your life?  How did you come up with the audience voice you do ? Speaking for other people has been something that's always been part of my personality since I was a teenager.  It diffuses a situation so if I'm running late for something, rather than the other person saying "Jim I can't believe you're late" - if I say "Jim I can't believe you're late" in their voice, it makes a humorous situation out of something awkward. *Jim, I can't believe you just stabbed me.* *Jim, I can't believe you're not butter* IDENTITY THEFT IS NOT A JOKE, JIM.  *MICHAEL!!* Oh that's funny!  MICHAEL!!! Dammit Jim, I'm a model not a comedian *Why is Jim rubbing butter on himself* He's not. He's making night time toast. *You're holding me hostage in your basement.  That just seems weird...* *hey I like basements mister* Would you do that in court? 

"Oh gosh, that evidence looks pretty damning, I wonder what he'll say to get out of this???"  Jim. I love your stuff! How in the world do you have time for your big family with all you have going on? Do they all tour with you? Yes, we will be going on a 30 city tour this Summer. Jeannie and our 5 kids on a tour bus.  The tour bus will be wrapped with a picture of my face. Interestingly enough, the image is the same size as my actual head. I can't tell which part of this comment, if any, is sarcasm. Have you had any kale today? If that's code for "breakfast burrito" then yes. Boy I sure am hankering for some kale all of a sudden.  I had two kales this morning for breakfast I've read *Dad Is Fat* and am currently reading *Food: A Love Story,* and from what I've read so far it sounds like people who recognize you yell "Hot Pocket!" at you a lot.

How frequently does that occur? If you could go back in time and un-tell the Hot Pocket jokes, would you? I would not go back in time and untell the jokes. Hot Pockets changed my life, but yes 2 or 3 times a day a stranger, or even someone I know, will say Hot Pockets to me.  It's very similar to when your uncle does an inside joke that you're rather tired of but you politely nod. &gt; Hot Pockets changed my life,

True for everyone, Jim.  Everyone. Yes, but usually they don't change them for *the better*. [deleted] Glad to see your growth #HOT POCKETS *nods politely*

 If given the opportunity to create your own flavor of Ben &amp; Jerry's ice cream, what would it be called?  It would be one of the highest honors. It would have to have bacon in it. I would name it "Fat Dad". Chubby hubby [Chubby Hubby does not feature bacon, deformo](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-4qmVG2Np7hQ/UZK_Xf7r27I/AAAAAAAAJ3c/ib4ysqrYl5A/s1600/08-DSC_8684.JPG). At first I thought you were issuing a really nasty insult, but I guess "deformo" is  just his name. Aww shit. Did you remember your Lunch Money Deformo? Because you just got taken to School! Are you ticklish? Just around my breast left or right
 If you forgot your long-sleeve sunshirt at the beach this summer, how long could a person stare at you before going blind? Maybe 30 seconds, depending if they're wearing sunglasses I imagine your whole family at the beach would require other beach goers to be attired like people at an old timey atomic bomb test like so: http://imgur.com/w6J5MPX
 This is the audience at Jims Hawaii stand up special  You never stare directly at the Gaff. Which do you have more of -- kids or red sneakers? I haven't talked to my wife in an hour, it might be more kids The catholic is strong with this one. Hi Jim! Big fan. Love your seafood bit. How was it working with Matt Lucas on Portlandia? Any stew recommendations? Bug meat? Matt Lucas is a delight, a really nice funny guy. He came to my show in London, I was very flattered. Do you like to cut your sandwiches horizontally or diagonally? That's kind of personal There goes Gaffigan, dodging the tough questions.  It's Woody Harrelson all over again! Not considering their dreams, what do you want your kids to be when they grow up? I just want them to love what they do (aren't I great?) If I win the lottery, how much money would I have to give you for you to make me a sandwich every weekday?  Nothing. I live to serve you. Dear Jim

If you were going to be any type of muffin, what type of muffin would you be?

Sincerely-
Your Secret Admirer  Great question - I would have to say Lemon Poppyseed. And also, I know this "Secret Admirer" is really president Obama. Obama a caps fan? not *my* president Well, he does live in D.C. Do you think there is a stand up resurgence going on? This is the Golden Age of stand up. When I started, it was all weirdos and derelicts. Now most comedians went to a little Ivy university. I've noticed that same trend in baristas. I guess that explains why coffee shops are so expensive.  This is the Golden Age of baristas.  If you were Tom Brady right now, how would you comfort yourself with your recent punishment? By looking in the mirror or at my wife? ... Or bank account? I do all those at once. 1. On Gaffigan Show, your character gets backlash for being Catholic. Did you get the same backlash in real life after talking about God on Pete Holmes' podcast?

2. What's your best on-stage memory? 1. The episode on jimgaffigan.com was actually inspired by a series of events that happened after Dad is Fat was published. I kind of outed myself as Catholic and then there was an article in the Washington Post identifying me as the leader of a new Evangelist movement. It was pretty hysterical.
2. Whenever I improvise a new joke or line is always the highlight I saw you at Giggles in Seattle, Wa probably a decade ago, and the power went out, and in your audience voice said "Oh no it's an Amish terrorist attack." That's probably the highlight of years of comedy shows for me. HAH! Giggles eventually got turned into a strip club, *Jiggles*.  It was able to draw a good amount of college guys on a nighty basis due to its vicinity to UW Yeah, pretty funny my comedian friend used to call it Jiggles because of how the owner ran it like a strip club. I used to go to Piccolos across the street all the time because they had Lazy Boy Belgian on tap. ...but then Piccolos was purchased and redubbed Diccolos, right? That book outed you as being Catholic like Supersize Me outed McDonalds as selling hamburgers. THAT WAS A HAMBURGER!? Hello Jim, thanks for doing this AMA. Do you think that a man notices when a woman gets her nails done? Also, would you choose to get rid of your fame if you could keep your money? Love your work, thanks for the laughs. Fame is only good because it gives you the opportunity to gain more creative fulfillment. I like how he didn't even notice the QUESTION about whether or not men notice manicures. Well played sir Jim what's the best place for food in nyc?!??! This would take too long I typed that into Yelp and couldn't find anything. They went out of business. Food was good but the service sucked. What's your advice on breaking into the male model industry? Be sexy What's the highest number of bananas you've ever put in your mouth at once? 13 Hey Jim! You're up there as one of my favorite comedians at the very top of my list, so I'm ecstatic that this is happening.

For the question, how can you possibly balance family, work, and alone time with your large family?

Keep on being you. It's really hard. Especially with the Jim Gaffigan Show (see episode at www.jimgaffigan.com) - Jeannie and I wrote all episodes and executive produce, so the last 10 weeks have been chaos. But I do not want to be one of those dads that my kids don't know. Seriously, who is more pale? You or Conan O'Brien?  I should know this answer - I think it's me? [Yes.](http://i.imgur.com/AtnJb3c.png)

Edit: Now with video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZdT_SK32GL0 those pink nipples are a little disturbing. Would you consider a role to be Phillip Seymour Hoffman if someone made a movie about his life? Are you willing to appear in Super Troopers 2?  I definitely would but I have no idea what the Broken Lizard guys plans are As of last month, broken lizard decimated their request on indiegogo. as it stands, theyre about 35k away from having the funding to use live bears in their movie (as promised). https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/super-troopers-2 BEARS.  /u/JayChandrasekhar, /u/RealKevinHeffernan, /u/PaulSoter, /u/SteveLemme, /u/ErikStolhanske get on this right meow.

Edit: http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/3627lf/im_male_model_jim_gaffigan_ama/cra3ndz FYI, if you summon more than three usernames in one comment none of them are notified. You would have to put three in one comment and two in another comment.  /u/JayChandrasekhar 
/u/RealKevinHeffernan
/u/PaulSoter

 Good.  /u/SteveLemme 
/u/ErikStolhanske Work.  Jim, big fan. You're not shy about talking about and sharing your family on social media as it's grown. How much has the growth of your family impacted your comedy, both standup and in the show?  It's impacted my comedy enormously. I never thought that I would be a comedian who would be so autobiographical, but I find it funny and it keeps me less self-centered. When I was in high school and worked at the small local movie theater in my town, you made an appearance for a local film festival. I was too shy to ask for a picture, and shortly after, you blew up with people in my age with the Hot Pocket thing.

My question is: Which do you like better: making smaller appearances or doing the bigger comedy specials?

(PS - You accidentally walked out with your fly open and noticed it. Didnt get a pic, but thats a fun memory.) I like the sense of completion of doing an hour special, but there's nothing better than the feeling of coming up with a new joke.

Also, I never close my fly. I need air *hott rocketttt* &gt; the feeling of coming up with a new joke.

 Hey Jim, whats the hardest part about being a male model? Being asked if I'm Brad Pitt If I should happen to find myself in a waffle house, how do you recommend I defend myself? The menu is made from heavy stock for a reason Do I look like a cat to you, boy? Am I jumpin' around all nimbly bimbly from tree to tree? I worked on super troopers for two hours and people still come up to me and say "meow" Jim, Jay Chandrasekhar here.  Meow, I saw your new show.  It's really funny.   Meow this thread is complete. hopefully jim's a lock for a spot in the sequel meow. I don't really have anything to say right meow, other than I'm excited for Super Troopers 2 If it makes you feel better, I didn't realize that was you until just now. Until just meow. Did you just say meow? Do I look like a cat to ya boy?  Meow give me your license and registration. Shut up farva [Link for the lazy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mXPeLctgvQI) He says meow 11 times What are your thoughts on the "dad bod" craze?  I had a dad bod before people tried to manufacture that it was okay to have a dad bod. Hipster He clearly started the trend. He's the Kim Kardashian of dad bods Hopefully he [thinks it's worse than ebola](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iQlIPOTbuH8) Hi.  Jim.  Jay Chandrasekhar here.  Watched your show.  Very funny, pal.  Very funny. Get Jim Gaffigan in Super Troopers 2  Get Jim for Super Troopers 2 already Congrats on getting Supertroopers 2 funded! Hello Mr. Gaffigan! I love your skits about the holidays, but it has me wondering, what is your favorite holiday? Thanksgiving What if we eat a lot with people who annoy the hell out of us?

(This guy's anti-family.) Hey Jim
How's your day going so far? It's good - I'm blown away that 500,000 people have visited jimgaffigan.com to stream the episode (I'm sorry, I have to plug here and there) &gt; jimgaffigan.com

All right. Fine. Who's somebody you've been meaning to work with? I've always been a huge Steve Buscemi fan, and he actually agreed to be in an episode. What is the best dipping sauce? I can't get it right. It depends on the item. Onion rings should be dipped in blue cheese, ketchup is always a good go-to. Thanks for doing this. Who is your favorite young stand up comedian? There are so many. There was a time when I knew all the comedians that were in New York and LA and now there are people that we used on The Jim Gaffigan Show (see a preview at jimgaffigan.com) that I haven't seen do stand up. It's quite embarrassing. I was at your show in Atlantic City and there was a sign language interpreter there, and you said diarreah as many times as you could to make her sign it over and over again. 

Do you have any other favorite words you like to have them sign again and again? I think this perfectly illustrates that I'm an artist. Why are you so white? My father was a q-tip (one of my first jokes I ever wrote) First, I love you and you are hilarious and amazing at what you do. 

Second, Has Hot Pocket ever approached you for a sponsorship or endorsement?  Yes, I passed. Not that I'm a great person, I'm happy to whore for any product, it's just that I'm already known as the Hot Pocket guy. No sense in confirming that. How many baby carrots are in a bag of baby carrots? 34 this man knows his carrots. 