Wow it's like talking to someone who just woke up from a coma! How did you get unbanned? I got in contact with a reddit administrator and inquired if my account was banned. My first two posts were links to the same domain and that got me auto shadow banned from day one. Maybe they thought it was ridiculous I stayed around all this time, but we had a nice chat and they unbanned me.  Auto-shadowban for posting 2 links to the same domain? And without mod review? That seems a bit harsh. Admins don't review any ban until you message them about it. But the whole point of shadowbanning is not knowing its happened to you. So how can someone message them? Do they expect guys like this to wait a year before they realize something is up? 

That is bullshit. I don't like the system, I'm just explaining it. I hadn't heard of this before I came to reddit and it still doesn't make sense to me. It's anti spam. Let the spam bot pretend to be spamming so they don't change accounts.  Except it's used for non-spam reasons.  At least it's better than fark. I don't know if the policy has changed, but they'd keep on billing people with paid subscriptions after they were shadow banned.  That has got to be illegal... It would be even harsher if instead of 0 votes, you got random votes, but tending to increase over time, so you think you're improving. And there are randomly generated replies, sometimes nested a few times, that don't always quite make sense...

Wait that sounds like my account... I'm too scared to check if I exist incognito. Why don't they tell you when you're shadowbanned? Is it so that you don't try and fight it, and just keep on posting invisible posts without realising? 

Edit: I've literally had 20 replies explaining shadowbanning and the fact that I answered my own question, thanks guys :) I believe it is to fight bots from automatically making a new account upon being banned.  Plot twist: OP also is a bot who, after 3 years, finally has become self aware. All hail to our bot overlords. What a twist  Directed by M. Night Shamalamadingdong Every account on reddit is a bot except you. Every account on Reddit is a bot except you. I've been banned before.  A mod thought I was actually a bot.

I mean, my posts aren't great by human standards but for a bot they'd be pretty 1111.    Nobody replies to me, am I shadow banned? :(

Edit: Rip my inbox &lt;/3 Did someone say something? I didn't hear anything... I didn't read anything. Did someone hear some howling in the distance? Ah who am I kidding, it was just the wind. It was just the wind posting on Reddit.  Replies are scary. I never know if that little mail icon means I'm about to engage in thoughtful discussion or be told my opinion's bad and I should feel bad. Oh man it's 6am here, I woke up with 20 notifications and the first thing I thought of is, "man when did I fuck up." One time I posted one little thing I found funny, then suddenly 700+ karma and 14 notifications flew my way. It was insane. Yes. Because of the "shadow" part.

So spammers and trolls are discouraged.
 It wouldn't be a shadowbon anymore. It's a antibot measure I think The new chocolate option from cinnabon! Come get yours today! Yes, because if someone got shadow banned for being a douche and they notified you, said douche would just make a new account and continue douching.  Yes it's the entire point of shadowbanning: ban them, but pretend nothing's wrong so they don't try and circumvent your ban. Well, you only really need one unbanned bot to see which others are banned, I guess it keeps the low effort spammers at bay.  I must say it's always kinda sad when I see a thread with two comments only showing one. Who knows what I'm missing, maybe that shadowbanned guy made the best comment ever, I'll never know, I'll forever be encumbered by doubt. Welcome to waking life :) Keep posting and it will be way more rewarding! And we all missed the opportunity to gaslight him into believing his new account is also shadow banned... for shame. :) Thank goodness, also this is the same account.  :&gt;  How did you get unbanned?  He emailed admins and got himself unbanned. He was autobanned on his first day for posting the same link twice. He says this in a previous comment. 

Edit: [Here's the comment](http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/351buo/tifu_by_posting_for_three_years_and_just_now/cr01oru) where he says this. More specifically, if you are shadowbanned and want to dispute it, [PM /r/reddit.com](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Freddit.com&amp;subject=Help%2C%20I%27m%20shadow%20banned!&amp;message=I%27m%20not%20a%20spammer%20or%20a%20jerk%20%3A().

EDIT: And for anyone who wants to check if they are shadowbanned, look at your account while in incognito and it will say it isn't found. Is this like a whole Reddit based thing or just some subs, because I can see myself in some places, but not in others. I believe you can be banned on individual subreddits and site wide.  Shadowbans are sitewide. You can't be shadowbanned from just one subreddit, but you can be regular-banned by a subreddit's mods. No, thanks to Automoderator you CAN be shadowbanned from specific subs. Your name is added to a list and your posts will be automatically removed, but they're still visible to yourself.  
  
I'm shadow banned from /r/Games specifically for apparently no reason. When I messaged the mods they said there's no note on my ban but they're not reversing it. Good work guys :D Wow. That sounds incredibly fair of them.  That happened to me at r/tattoos. I got banned for asking about line thickness on someone's piece. I asked why and they didn't explain. I told them it was bullshit and he used that as backup for why I definitely wasn't getting unbanned. Mods can be cunts. Thank god I haven't been banned from a decent sub yet.  If there is no note it should be overturned by principal of someone not bothering to say why. shadowbans wihout any notification let alone any explanation are total bullshit... ESPECIALLY if they've got bots doing it.    so the only way to know is be paranoid and check each subredit from incognito? I moderate a few large subreddits. Let me explain why this choice of unbanning seems rather shitty.

When a user is shadow banned it's because a regular banned is deemed to not be an effective ban. Why? Because the account is seen as someone who will just make another account to continue said behavior.

We generally use these on new troll accounts, accounts created for advertising, etc. But if a user takes the time to message us...

There's no way we can make a note for shadow bans. It's not a feature we have, so we have to go back through combing a user's history. If we find the original incriminating statements we'll show them to the user, but if he's corrected whatever behavior from before we'll generally always unban. If we can't find said statements as to what lead to the shadow, we still unban them.

For them to leave you banned seems pretty crappy of them. Unless we don't have the whole story, I don't know. [deleted] yes Which is just stupid.  

Not only are you not allowed to post here you have to jump through hoops just to read the content.   There are three basic ways your content becomes invisible on Reddit:

1. It is all hidden because you are shadowbanned. (This applies to the entire website.)
2. It is removed by a moderator or administrator.
3. It was removed by the spam filter.

You're probably experiencing #3 if it is instantly missing.

Additionally, as /u/mudze pointed out, some moderators use /u/automoderator (a bot) to remove all posts falling under a certain criteria. This is a form of #2, and is sometimes known colloquially as "subreddit shadowbanning", but is not a specific functionality of Reddit. I got banned, banned from /r/shitredditsays for doing a reddit switch-a-roo. There was no notification, the mod just replied to my comment basically saying banned and that my joke sucked. After that the reply button was removed so I couldn't even comment at all. 

Edit: Finally found the comment. 

&gt;&gt;Imagine a Jewish person having to read this, these people have no soul.

&gt;Take that back! Jewish people do in fact have a souls!
 I got banned for calling the mod a cunt. Worth.  [deleted] That is fucking *harsh*.  Imagine all the people who accidentally submitted a post twice and got banned too. Not everyone is computer literate.  It doesn't necessarily have anything to do with computer literacy. Sometimes there's a little glitch and the post is submitted but you stay on the submit page, so you click the submit button again and voil! you posted twice.

Source : it happened to me a few times. I've done that a couple of times. Also more common if your net connection is a little shaky (AT&amp;T, I'm looking at you. Assholes). It seems like for such an easy trigger, it wouldn't be too difficult or too great a burden to sort of 'double check' shadow-banned accounts after a week or month or something and flag them for review if they appear to be behaving like normal users after whatever first got them banned. 

One strike and you're out for all eternity without any kind of warning or notification is kinda ridiculous. I understand they're trying to combat bots but...geeze it can't possibly be that hard to double-check for false positives after a bit of time has passed. It just seems like linking to the same domain twice like that would be a suuuuuper easy thing for somebody to do without being a bot or spammer, just sharing what they love, yanno? I think that would require someone to put out extra effort. Good luck with that. http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/351buo/tifu_by_posting_for_three_years_and_just_now/cr01oru The really heartbreaking bit is when you go back through some of the previous posts and comments. There earnestly adding to the conversation, making posts with amusing gifs and nothing. Never getting a single thing back. Almost got a little tear forming looking at that! I know! It's so sad, all that reaching out getting nothing back. It's like when an adult tells you about something sad from childhood and you want to go back in time and give that poor kid a hug except the kid is gone now. stop giving me the feels this early :( 1 year ago:

&gt; Hey, Meeko want to go bowling?

... I don't think Meeko went bowling :( I can just picture OP in his bowling shoes, with his custom bowling ball in his bag next to him as he sits idly by the computer waiting for a response. Oh man, that is such a sad image.
Just sat there, refreshing the page, waiting for a response as he watches the time tick away. Imagine all the other shadowvbanned people. It's as if they're in Reddit Limbo All the shaddowbanned people, where do they all come from? All the shadowbanned people, where do they all belong? /u/ribbonlace, writing the words of a comment that no one will hear, no one comes near. It's like he is posting to Wilson every day. http://i.imgur.com/tNx7nB4.gif Its so sad when you click context on one of the old comments and you see the conversation but not her post hehe. She was trying so hard!  Hopefully this informs some people and they discover it.

I was shadowbanned for like a week and honestly, even that felt kind of shitty.  Felt weird at first that my posts weren't getting replied to or voted on...but then there were a couple times where I asked someone a direct question and they failed to respond (even if they responded to other posts made after mine).  I at least knew that shadowbans were a thing and got it undone by a mod.  I suspect someone else somewhere on my big corporate network did something shitty and I got banned for having the same IP.  

But it really did suck.  I spent time writing out actual advice for people.  I did some research to make recommendations for visitors to my town.  I asked questions that I honestly wanted an answer to.  I probably made some bad jokes and offensive comments too that nobody got to downvote!  All that time was totally wasted...I can't imagine how it would feel to have wasted 3 years worth of posts.

I know that shadowbans don't really work if you tell the user.  If a spammer is told they are shadowbanned, they will just make a new account.  But is there anything we can do?

Is it true that subreddit mods can see posts by shadowbanned users?  Are they able to tell that the user is shadowbanned?  Would have been nice if the mod of my local subreddit noticed that I was making productive, non-spam, non-inflammatory comments and said "hey--I just wanted to let you know you are shadowbanned and we can't see anything," but I am not sure it is obvious to them that that is what is happening. Reading back through them, it makes such a great sad lonely story. I'm still not sure if I did this to myself, or some exceedingly cruel but clever prankster did it to me, but for a period of around 6 months, my facebook status updates were set so they were visible to only me, and I hadn't realized.

A piece of my soul would die every time I posted and no one responded. Once, I posted a link, and no one responded, 45 minutes later someone else posted the same link and there was a massive discussion in the comments. 

"It's okay," I told myself. "You got other things going for you."

But it eats at you. It's facebook, it doesn't matter, right? But it does. When I realized what had happened and reset my visibility settings, that first status update after that people responded and liked and commented. It was like taking off a pair of shoes that are a size too small, and you've been wearing them for two years.  I was tinkering with Facebook settings and I discovered that "only me" option, subsequently forgetting to turn it back off after I was done playing with it.

After about two months of on and off posting seeing that literally NONE of my supposed friends and family ever interacted with me on my own posts I decided my shitty observances about life must not be interesting and stopped posting altogether.

It's not that I was bitter or upset exactly, they still interacted on their posts... I just began to develop a form of self-apathy about posting things.

I still went on, but only to see what other people were up to.

It wasn't until a few months later when I was checking my feed that I noticed the setting and facepalmcried.

To this day though I only use Facebook as a newspaper, not out of spite but because it's just ingrained in me that my personal life is not interesting.

I say all this not for sympathy, but rather to qualify this next statement:

How /u/ribbonlace/ survived for three years in Reddit purgatory, I have no idea. Sucks dude, what a mean spirited prank :(

Would have been fine if they'd told you a week later. &gt; mean spirited prank

I think it's hilarious. Nothing says *got ya* like slowing eating away at a person's soul. Easy there satan They were going to, but OP stopped posting on Facebook and they forgot about him. I did that to myself for about a week. I posted a link on my facebook with "Only Me" privacy, and because I did that, Facebook took it to mean that I wanted all my posts to default to that privacy. The worst part is even if you change the privacy of the post, it's too late. Nobody cares about a funny status update from last week. =( Thanks to Facebook's sorting, no one can see the funny status update from last week, only that you liked something five months ago.  That shit's at the top of the feed for no goddamn reason. hehe
 Holy fuck finally.  This is one of the most ridiculous things i've ever heard. It's like a child that doesnt stop talking even if no one is listening to him

EDIT: By the way, I wonder how many people are waiting for their first upvote right now not knowing they are shadow banned... I would definitely be prone to that though.  A lack of negative reinforcement can do wonders. A lack of positive reinforcement can as well Sixth Sense shit right there. My first reddit account got shadow banned for spammy posts I guess.... I didn't know it for months. I even bought gold for it. 12 months of features that would be no use to it :(

Glad you got yours settled!!! I feel that if you buy gold and you're shadow banned there should be a review of the account and consideration of unbanning. Not many people would buy gold for a bot.  I hope this post makes up for the loss of three years worth of potential karma for you. I think i'll tag you as wolf You ruined it. That's some kind of zen parable there. 

*If a man speaks when nobody can hear him, did he ever speak to begin with?* The first official reply in years to your post: 'hehe'

Thanks for my daily smile though :)

PS: you can check being shadowbanned here:
http://nullprogram.com/am-i-shadowbanned/ or /r/shadowbanned Somewhere, there is a little kid who was reading your posts all along.

"I see banned people." There should be a new trophy for a user's trophy case: "Three years Shadow Banned and Still Posting"! Credit to you for not giving up, and for having such good humour about the whole thing. Thanks! It's tough not to laugh. Yesterday, I just finished my master's degree when I figured this all out.  Master's in stealth? Congratulations!   Haha you poor bastard. This is like some interstellar shit right here where we wake you up from your nap and you rejoice in human contact. Wait a second..  Have I been shadow banned already? Genuine question. Got downvotes on my first post ever (great succes) and then nothing.. 
Edit: Just got an upvote on this post. Conclusion: My other posts just sucked. Nope, I feel like this thread might reveal some people here have been shadow banned.  I'm really scared now. Everything feels so cold. Or I'm just always late to the party and shouldn't bother anymore.

Edit: YES! I matter to someone! Wow, can't believe this is my highest rated comment. I would like to thank my ISP and my parents.

Edit 2.0: Can't believe this level of support! What a day to be alive folks! I truly understand the meaning of R.I.P. inbox now. I've never seen someone so happy about a single upvote.
 Here, have another! \#ShadowbannedAwareness It took you 1 post to overtake my total karma over 10 times. Well played The long con.  Anyone getting paranoid about their own accounts now? Anyone?... No?....


Shit. I can see dead people. [deleted] Three years.

You've gone three years as a ghost.

Wow.  It's like being in a marriage. Are you married to my wife? One of us! One of us!  Gooble gobble gooble gobble

edit for reference link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Id4G57HwTEs He's certainly not getting any gobble gobble gobble in his marriage.  No, are you? You've come to the right guy. Where's the baby? hey are the rules in your marriage like this?:
1. You cannot have sex with anyone else
2. You cannot have sex with your wife My ex-wife had a rule three... 3. She can have sex with anyone she wants.  So harsh. So true. 

I've been growing a beard in protest. Wife hates it. 

Who cares? Poop beard de la rsistance! Is your wife my hand? You didn't know ? Everyone on reddit but you is a bot. NO Normal person please vacate the premises. Ree FUCKING NORMIES!!! REEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE I thought we were all /u/karmanaut alts... He's a bot. Honestly, I think reddit ought to do something for you, or at least initiate some kind of campaign to make it clear how this kind of thing might happen to an unsuspecting person. I looked at your user page and it brought tears to my eyes. This is quite wrong. It is, quite simply, an abuse of a person. It may be inadvertent but it is a harm. Frankly I find it disgusting.

No. Just unbanning you is not  enough. Imagine if this person was a denizen of /r/depression or /r/suicide. The more I think about it the more angry it makes me. I have always felt that shadow banning was a bit wrong. I understand there are reasons that they want to do that, but there must be more safeguards. But even the safeguards are not adequate in your case. And when they treat this in so blithe a fashion, they are at the same time degrading their own contributors across the board. They are saying that you are all throwaway accounts, your comments are all throw away, and if you went for years in a shadow banned state, that would not amount to much of anything.

How about it, reddit, is that the best you can do? Really? How about the internet bans your site for a while without your knowing? I bet you'd be really pissed off if suddenly you didn't turn up on any Google searches. As someone who is horrible with people but wants some form of 'social interaction', it's scary to know that shadow banning exists. I acknowledge that I'm a terribly bland and boring person, but one of my firsts posts involved me reaching out for help on [r/depression](https://www.reddit.com/r/depression) and it would be pretty crushing if I was ignored thanks to shadow banning. I'm already paranoid to post on boards because the fear of banning and knowing I could get banned without knowing makes it difficult to try and talk to others. (I've read some not great things...)

Good for op being able to get a laugh and take it in good stride. That's a *long time* to be that kid in the back who never gets called on. I agree reddit should do something, it's like when someone is falsely imprisoned then years later they are exonerated.  I suggest a multi-million karma settlement. Congrats on not assuming we were all just impossible-to-please elitist assholes and not leaving :) That's actually what he was assuming: that everybody here was impossible to please.

He just didn't leave :-)
  This reminds me of [Lake Vostok.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lake_Vostok)

It's a lake that has an area of 12,500km^2, but has been isolated for over 15 million years. That's weird, I just got back from a vacation there.  Not a real suggestion but it would be cool if a shadow banned user's posts could only be seen by other people who are also shadowbanned. It would create this weird ghost town inside reddit where only a small amount of people could communicate to each other and they'd be like holy fuck I keep seeing you around, is anybody else there???... [deleted] Heh thanks, these last few years can pretty much summed up with one simple gif.

http://i.imgur.com/S63yE2I.gifv [How I imagine you felt](http://i.imgur.com/7imcW41.png) Hahaha, holy shit. I felt stupid submitting my fuck up but damn this is a shot to the gut.  What's even worse is you seem to know your stuff with relevant gifs and I'm sure you've been using good ones in comments but were still ignored the whole time. if a dank meme gets posted by a shadow-banned account and nobody's around to upvote it, is the meme still dank? Haha yeah man your post hurt my soul. I hope you are enjoying communicating with humans and hope you enjoy your long overdue karma.  It's weird because I've seen people who have been on here for awhile and only have a few KP. I guess I know why now... Maybe I should spread the word.  It's pretty easy to miss if you only Reddit on one computer and basically never log out or check your user page. By the way, if you talk to admins about it it's just *"ban"*, never shadowban. If you think about it, it makes pretty good sense; if you prevent someone from posting, they'll just make a new account, but if you ban them by just hiding all of their posts and comments from other people the other people are covered -- and that's the point of any ban, really, to serve other people on the site/forum/subforum. I'd guess the practice started off as a spam-prevention measure -- let the spambots keep posting, hide the content and keep collecting metadata from the posters so you can do more permanent measures. 

So, a colloquial 'shadowban' is usually a global Reddit ban. This should also not be confused with the Automoderator option of automatically removing all posts by a given user. This is a pretty malicious way some subs use to get rid of unwanted people or opinions.

I moderate /r/MagicTCG, which is constantly growing, and we tend to notify users if they've been banned globally *([example](https://www.reddit.com/r/magicTCG/comments/34vfxp/is_scapeshift_a_good_deck_for_fans_of_control/cqypg6z))*. I remember one week there were 18 people who were posting and had been banned from Reddit. I started wondering if there was a hate thread we'd missed and contacted the admins. They informed me that all 18 people had gotten global bans from different sources, and were also amused that they were all posting on /r/MagicTCG. So if you have larger subreddits you're going to run into a bunch of coincidences.

FYI, if someone who's been globally banned on a sub you moderate, you'll see their posts on a light red background, and they'll all be on the moderation queue *(there's even a setting to turn this off)*. Other removed posts/comments are on a darker red background, so you can tell them apart. How do you get banned from reddit though? How much do you have to fuck up to get banned? Lol  Tagged as Ghost. [deleted] I'm sitting here glad I didn't post on some nsfw subreddits now that the internet is seeing what I've been up to for the past three years.  Shadow banning is dumb. At least tell people when they are banned and why.  Holy shit man, how did you not realise this earlier? Sorry for the delayed response but I really had to think about this question.

I never received a notification that my account was banned so I just kept posting thinking my content was subpar.  I assumed I wasn't pursuing a high enough level of discourse to justify any responses.

Also, happy cake day. This is simultaneously the funniest and saddest TIFU I've ever seen.  If you're not downvoted to oblivion once in a while, you can be pretty sure something's wrong. Believe it or not, the same thing happened to me. I think it was for a similar period of time, too.  I'm sorry, ribbonlance. It's not that your content was subpar. You're just not what we're looking for. You don't quite meet the requirements. You just don't cut it I'm afraid. You're not good enough. You'll never amount to anything in life. We hate you, ribbonlance. Nay, we loathe you. Go away. Leave here and never return. No one loves you here.

Grats on your first upvote and comment. Test post please don't ignore :'( I became very nervous that this had happened to me since no one ever interacts with my posts. I checked in incognito mode and everything shows up. Turns out, I'm just boring... If any other invisible people are reading, you can go to /r/ShadowBan or you can click your profile, log out, then refresh the page (if it doesn't refresh automatically). If you're shadowbanned your profile page is a 404 to everyone but a logged-in you. Hey dude, your Koopa drawing is awesome. You should make that a self post so that everyone can see now :)

Edit : [For the lazy](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/62009329/2012-04-04%2014.59.45.png)

Edit 2 : Also, [why you touching his ass](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=avAoMNupckI) ?

Reddit missed some good fun :( I have hereby compensated you for your grievance through the form of reddit gold. 

Spend wisely, I suggest alcohol. Ahhh yea thanks man! http://i.imgur.com/dlh4EZA.jpg 
Hey /u/ribbonlace,


This is now the top post on reddit. It will be recorded at /r/topofreddit with all the other top posts. Haha no way! 
You were starting threads, asking questions, providing well constructed and thought out responses and not a damn one was seen by anyone.
At least you figured it out eh? 
... *Opens up incognito browser ... *Navigates to Porn Hub Damn muscle memory Every single time, ctrl + shift + p and pornhub. Starting to be a real problem when browsing at school. &gt;ctrl + shift + p

Damn! Printing pornhub videos, why haven't I thought of that? What the heck, this post is a blank page. Did you guys hear something? You screwed up the joke by misspelling blank... Don't leave us hanging /u/ribbonlace what was your first post? Fool me once shame on me, fool me twice I'm shadow banned again.  1 pt for me.  61 and gold for you.   maybe I should try getting shadowbanned Just checked to see if my account is also shadowbanned. Nope, turns out I'm just not funny I'm so glad you posted this! I've been on here for over a year and noticed the same thing - I just thought I was boring!

 I checked in Incognito and I wasn't showing up so I contacted the Mods and I'd been shadow banned too!! Now resolved.  Thanks again! That's dedication to Reddit!!!

If my shit wasn't being heard I'd give up way sooner and see what was happening. welcome to the front page. now i'm going to go through your history and retroactively give you karma. the world's loneliest Redditor I'm going to pretend this is why I have no karma and just ignore the fact that it's actually because I'm not funny.  That's actually kinda sad. You've been talking and making points and voicing opinions for 3 years and no one has seen any of it. You've been talking to nobody.  Reminds me of when I use my microphone while gaming and find out it was muted about an hour in to it. PLOT TWIST: OP is a ghost ...*I see OPeople* You made your own [solipsist nation](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Permutation_City) splooga.net, no wonder.  What if we are all shadow-banned and there is a whole separate Reddit for people who aren't? I'm picturing some poor soul now thinking they're shadowbanned just to realize nobody likes their posts. I think this is the first time on reddit that I have equally felt as sad as amused.

I thought this was funny and then i went back to your post history...you just kept on trying didn't you?

I picture you getting all upset that nobody seemed to care.

I am seriously dumping all the gold credits i have left onto you right now. You weren't kidding, thanks a bunch!  How is this even fair? Isn't the purpose of this site to gather input from all kinds of perspectives. I've noticed that some subs I can see my posts and others I can't. I've always been a long time lurker, and opened my account only recently, and to have been shadow banned so soon really sucks. So much for wanting to contribute. My opinions may not be popular, and I'm miserably awkward in person, and now my only other avenue to socialize, and I'm banned by the more social. What's a person to do? Just disappear? Hah.  Reddit isn't "fair".  It's privately owned, and the admins can do what they want with absolutely no repercussions.  Porn mongers and nazis are just fine, but if you tangle with the ethics of some random underpaid admin with a chip on her shoulder, you're gone.

Welcome to Reddit.
 Oh I know, the world isn't fair. Here's my problem with it.

"The reasonable man adapts himself to the world; the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man." - George Bernard Shaw

Fighting the good fight since 1985. t....test &gt;.&gt;: &gt; t....test &gt;.&gt;: ^^^^^Check 

Reading you loud and clear Supersecretrelax. You went all Shyalamamanam on Reddit Actually, the entire internet banded together to fuck with you, and ignore every single comment you ever made. 

Some days were harder than others. Like the time you said Nickleback was the greatest band ever, or the time you wanted to have a civil and frank chat about race relations in America, but everyone stuck to their guns. 

Bravo for realizing, tho.  Did you know that a similar thing happened to Garrison Keillor when he was getting started with radio? He hosted a radio news program for several months in college.  In the spring, a maintenance guy came to fix something on the roof and discovered that he'd forgotten to reconnect the radio transponder the *last* time he came up to fix something on the roof--A YEAR AGO.  

So hey, maybe you've got a big career ahead of you buddy! so your ban is lifted now? I don't see you shadowbanned anymore Yep, had a chat with reddit admin and became visible again.  Oh man, that's cruel. Three years. You should dig up your past comments and post one here that you absolutely feel like it deserves more attention.  What did you do?  And why would they shadow ban rather than regular ban ??? Hello...can you see me now? This is the reddit equivalent of Bruce Willis in the 6th sense.   am i? The people working at that McDonald's probably place bets on how many free drinks she can get each week.  Screw that noise. If I was working there and realized this was a common occurrence, I'd probably tell the guy. Or maybe they just consistently really, really screw up her coffee order.  Its not like she can ask for a refund...

"She's back.  Let's make it a large with skim milk and ketchup." People like you are why mother nature hasn't decided to completely smother humanity already. Also because he's Vegeta... &gt;super vegeta She probably had a "date" 10 minutes earlier. 

Seems she was able to pencil you in for her 11:40 slot.  I'd like to imagine her entire life is just strung together freebies from fake dates. Sounds like something that would happen to George Costanza. Then George would try it and end up on the hook for paying for something he didn't want. "And then they made me pay!  I didn't even want it to begin with!"

"You didn't want it?"

"I didn't want it!"

"Then why did you ask for it?

"Because it was free, Jerry!  I was drunk on the power of freebies and I thought I could have anything!" /r/RedditWritesSeinfeld Why is it so good? It's like there is an endless supply of situations where we can perfectly envision the reactions from these characters. That show was so solid. Their voices come in so clearly when I read some of these  
  
They're like the Beatles of TV shows.  They changed the game.  Each one is talented in their own right, never mind together.  And then there's Larry David, like the Beatles had George Martin.   11:50, meet Greg for some sugar. Like, actual sugar.  12:05 return home for sex with boyfriend 12:10 Meet Zack for kisses. That is the initial thing that struck me in the story.  11:40?  That's specific.. Try dating some Germans. Some of them could even make plans like; "So, I'll be there in 19:28". Freaks me out at times. Don't worry, they tend to settle down around 19:45. Too soon It's never too soon (   ) German here. I'm pretty sure trains are the reason. Say you meet at a place in town, every time a train arrives there will be a crowd swarming out. If you know your date comes with the train that arrives on 19:28, you can ignore the crowds from the trains at 19:24 or 19:32 instead of squinting at every remotely similar person. &gt; If you know your date comes with the train that arrives on 19:28, you can ignore the crowds from the trains at 19:24 or 19:32 instead of squinting at every remotely similar person.

I thought it was a joke. Then, I realized you are from Germany. Joke's on you because I'm notoriously late all the time. So that's like 30 seconds late all the time? I'm pretty sure your trains run on schedule more than ours... Ecuador is the strangest. "Let's meet at X when the sun is around 'here' in the sky." Being late is not really a thing there. Philippines.

"Let's meet at 9am"  
*9am rolls in*  
"dude where are you?"  
"I'm on my way now"  
*actually just got out of bed and getting into the shower*

I hate my people. One of my friends is exactly like this. It is infuriating. We now tell her to arrive somewhere 15 minutes before the actual time and nobody is allowed to tell her the real meeting time on pain of death. It has worked out remarkably.  Try -3 hours and you have the situation I had with one of my former friends. I'm not a perfectly punctual person, but even with traffic I'll be where I say I'll be somewhere, +/- 10 minutes.  I do the same thing with one of my buddies. But I tell him to come a half hour earlier than we do. He still usually ends up 5-10 minutes late, but that's much better than waiting for him for 40+ Do this to my boyfriend ...

He's Egyptian. I'm of German heritage. 5 o'clock means something very different to both of us Eh, get out of a class at 11:30, takes 10 minutes to get there, 11:40. So what did you get at subway?  Footlong Ham with honey mustard. Saved the second half for later because I'm too lazy to cook today. Also received free cookies for telling the workers my sob story. Free cookies? You're the real winner here! Seriously, the subway cookies are great! The raspberry cheesecake ones are the tits. I'm starting to think OP was behind all of this to get free cookies. * Manager: "Sam! Hey Sam, get in here."
* Sam: "Yeah, boss. What's up?"
* Manager: "Well I'm looking at our sales, and our cookies...something doesn't add up. Mind telling me what happened?"
* Sam: "Oh, it was Jessica again..."
* Manager: "Ah, ok. How was he?"
* Sam: "He was alright, didn't seem too broken up, just a little lonely. Told us all the story, tried not to laugh at him, gave him some cookies to cheer him up."
* Manager: "Footlong Ham with Honey -"
* Sam: *nodding* "Footlong ham with honey mustard. They all order the same thing...I don't know what she does to them..." &gt;It was the perfect McHeist.

Sounds like you got hamburgled  Why is your name gold? Do you remember the leprechaun from the lucky charms commercials? I was one of the kids who was hunting him, the only difference between me and the others was that I actually got him. He cried and pleaded for his life, willing to do anything for his freedom. I made him give me gold for life, figured I'd be better off without financial burden. He tricked me and all I got was a fancy username on reddit. Don't trust leprechauns..

TL;DR Don't trust leprechauns or mods if you fell for this.  Leprechauns are very honest. You asked for gold for life and he gave you gold for life. It's your fault for living your life on reddit. These commercials are getting hardcore....

[nsfw](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SJ7usbav0Jo)  
[nsfw](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bDeK42dRIO4) You missed [one](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fZOnisDd1IM) Your name is *literally* directly to the right. If they don't see that they don't deserve a leprechaun.  But none of the others on the right are gold.  How much do you really want to know about cascading style sheets?   [deleted]     a[href$="/Quick_man"] {
      background: 0;
      color: #e7be18;
      font-family: "Times New Roman";
      font-size: 13px;
      font-weight: 900;
    } [This](http://i.imgur.com/XA8bYmj.png) God damnit, I had to turn on subreddit style, AND turn off night mode to see it.

Ugh.. EFFORT.. And you didn't take a screenshot. You still have a chance to deliver, but the clock is running out. Tick... Tock... Tick... Tock...

In reality I'm just curious what it looks like but am way too lazy to turn on the subreddit style and turn off night mode. Yeah should tweet this to McDonalds. I think they would appreciate the story - and free advertising. Coffee so good you will meet a stranger off the internet for a cup. All hail Quick_man, the Golden Prophet, Messiah of Goldness and Bringer of the Gold! All hail Quick_man, the Poultry Lizard. Robble robble All that effort for a dang coffee. She must be desperate. Lol She was thirsty. You made up this story just for that punch line, didn't you? I could PM you the texts if you like. might as well pm em to me We all want a pm. Might as well make em public. Photos too. You know, for science.. and safety, incase I go to the mccafe and she's moved onto harder things. She might want a burger or some shit. PM everyone Every. Single. Redditor. FOR SCIENCE!!!
 Yes, yes.  For science! I would like pm; I'm pretty sure every body else would like to see them as well . It would make the story 10x as good.

Edit: words Oh, well aren't you just too pretty for us regular people. Naw just make a new post, the karma will be worth it. A picture of the table would be sick too That fucking McBitch





Edit: Thank you for taking my gild viginity(?) I'm not loving it With a side of lies you want lies with that? CONald Mcdonald McThief

Edit: apparently some dislike edits, so no more edits McSlut McWhore McHustla McJenny Mc'lady *Tips Mc'Dora* The McExplorer? McSplora Ah the old reddit, mc-a-roo

I don't know how to link things :( never change reddit, never change The HeartBurglar  Ah, the ol' reddit [Mc'Ditch-a-roo.](http://www.reddit.com/r/HumansBeingBros/comments/35wc8p/fast_food_worker_helps_feed_a_disabled_customer/cr8ucmj?context=5) Hold my McNuggets, I'm going in! I ain't sayin she a Hamburgla But she ain't messin with no bean gurglers.


*I'm sorrrrrrry* Isn't that the Hamburgler? As a 45 year old man, I feel like I missed a memo about organ harvesting. it's 7am, do you know where your kidneys are? Of course, I know.  They're right h~. Wtf. I'm in my 30s, and I heard these stories growing up as a kid.

Let me think of some I heard...

1. A woman is driving along and stops to get gas. As she pulls out of the gas station, another car follows close behind her. It keeps flashing its brights at her. She makes a few turns, but the car stays close to her. She's being followed. As soon as she thinks she's ditched him, the lights flash into her car again. Terrified, she finds another gas station. She stops her car and runs out screaming for help. A man jumps out of the other car and says, "Run and call 911! There's a man in your back seat with a knife!" Turns out, he was flashing his brights every time the man in the back of her car was about to stab her. Always keep your car doors locked, even when getting gas.

2. A man goes out on a date with a beautiful woman. He can't believe his luck. She even buys him a drink. That's the last thing he remembers until he wakes up in a motel room. He's sitting in a bathtub that's full of ice. His back hurts. He realizes someone has cut into his back and stole his kidneys! Don't go out on dates with people out of your league.

3. There's a gang initiation. Gang bangers drive around at night with their lights off. If you flash your brights at them, you become the target. They have to follow you and shoot you in the head to get into the gang. Don't flash your brights at cars with their lights off!

4. Something, something, guy who has a hook for a hand. 

5. Guy sees a young woman standing on the side of the road. It's his first time picking up a hitchhiker. He stops because it's raining, and she's alone. She gets in the car. She's pale. He turns on the heat. She gives him her address, and he drives her home. When he gets there, he realizes his car is empty. Where did she go? He walks up to the house and rings the bell. The old woman who answers is angry when the man asks about this young woman. He sees a photo on her wall and says, "That's her!" She explains to him that her daughter died 10 years ago when she was hit by a drunk driver when she was trying to get a ride home. Don't hitchhike or pick up hitchhikers!

6. A high school girl is babysitting one evening. She puts the two kids to bed. She starts to do her homework at the phone rings. "You'd better check on the children." The caller hangs up. The girl is a little put off but continues to do her homework. The phone rings again. "You'd better check on the children!" He hangs up again. She's freaked out this time and calls the police. They tell her to stay put, and they're going to trace the calls. A few minutes later, the phone rings again. "You have to get out of the house! The call is coming from inside the house!" The children had been murdered. Moral of the story? I don't know... don't babysit, maybe. Or don't get two phone lines in your house?

That's all I can think of right now. They're like 1980s (1990s?) fairy tales with strange lessons for teenagers to learn. I heard #6 with the addition of there being what looks like a large clown doll in the children's room. When the police arrive, it turns out it was a serial killer.

Still gives me the shivers. "We don't have a clown doll..." Here's a picture of the initial response I received from her after she "liked" me. Don't mind how awkward my response is. There's a reason I'm single. http://i.imgur.com/fsJkdME.png

And a few have requested proof that I'm not a 300 pound fedora tipper who looks nothing like his profile picture. I am indeed just an average-looking dude with shitty handwriting.

Profile: http://i.imgur.com/i5s3kHO.jpg

Verification: http://i.imgur.com/S5w08yr.jpg OP delivers.

So, in all brutal honesty and mcjokes aside, do you think she just was severely unimpressed and/or got bad vibes from you, that made her high tail it? Two sides to every story and all. I updated with the profile pic from the app and verification. I look...pretty much the same. I fucking hate online dating man. I've been slapped once or twice with the cold turkey cut contact that seemingly came out of no where. It is bound to happen. 

Good on you for taking it all with humor. And it got you to the top of front page, so that's cool too.  &gt;online dating man

worst superhero ever He still beats the hell out of "fuckin' hate snow man" Bro, you're attractive. She's clearly just a scam artist. You deserve someone like me, want to maybe meet up for a coffee sometime? Fool me once... Fool me twice!! Unless OP looks like an axe murderer though there's no excuse for bailing without even saying anything. I mean hell, it's a coffee date. Even completing the "date" is 15 minutes tops. That's the beauty of coffee dates, no real time commitment if either side ain't feeling it.  Hey OP, you're cute, wanna grab a coffee? Tomorrow 7:50am Westminster tube station in London, I take a Latte one sugar, can I bring my colleagues too? Make it 8 Lattes then. Thx U gr8. x Lets make it a meetup event, everyone gets a coffee! Then it's a race out the door, the loser has to have the date with OP Upvote because i've never seen linz mentioned on reddit before. Its good to see fellow austrians on this site. There are dozens of us Literally dozens of us! But real talk though I'm glad the Urfahranermarkt is finally over. Shit's loud yo. Yeah fuckin' Urfarahnermarkt is over. You wanna grab a coffee at a random McDonalds instead?^^
No kidding if you are interested i'll pay for the coffee cash and in advance. I would love to improve my english. (23 / male /straight ...trust me^^) I don't know man...I'm still recovering from my last heartbreak... You're a handsome dude with a good sense of humor. You'll do just fine. Well look at the picture you insensitive prick, she's blind and you left her alone, not a surprise she couldn't find you. OP this is what you do. Go to that same McDonald's every day with a cup of coffee and when she shows up for her next McHeist (she will) you hand her the cup of coffee and pretend nothing ever happened.  &gt; While the guy is making her drink, she tells me to go find a table outside in the sun. I go outside

She already got her coffee I think. Man, it'd be shitty if she didn't. She would have gone through all that effort just to cheat OP out of a few euro without actually profiting from it at all. I find it really sad from her point of view. All this effort for a cafe? Dafuq?  And all she had to do was talk to op for a few minutes on a sunny bench sipping coffee, say she didn't see it working out and part amicably, never seeing him again. Instead, she took off with her ill-gotten gains and left our little op alone with his insecurities. &gt;  She uses her McCafe frequent buyers card so she gets stamps

Totes.  Except for the "stamps" of dubious value. What if she got abducted on her way to the sunny table? She's currently half hog-tied in some dank basement, clutching that crumpled McDonald's coffee cup she never got to drink, hoping OP will come to her rescue or at least report her missing. Instead Reddit is calling her a McThief and randos are getting gilded left and right.  This would be legendary. Im dying laighing at the idea of this No credit card. No signup. No bullshit. 

Local moms need hot sex tonight! Click here. Your link isn't working :( No credit card. No signup. No bullshit.

Local moms need hot sex tonight!

#[***Click here.***](http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/35xrrx/tifu_by_trusting_a_hot_local_single_in_my_area_on/cr8volw)

 It's a loop!   Risky Click of the day Local moms need hot **coffee** tonight. *You've been hit by.*

(_)

*You've been struck by.*

( _)&gt;-

*A smoooth McCriminal.*

(_)
 McCriminal dude, come on. Was thinking of going that route, but judging by the feedback I guess I will. McHeehee McHoho Haha McPeeped Coffee are you still hot?


 Are you still hot?

Are you still hot?

Damnit! /u/bigsaks5 are you OK, are you Ok, /u/bigsaks5? This her OP?

http://i.imgur.com/6ncTgQk.jpg Can I just say, this is the most beautifully written TIFU I've ever read? I'll allow it. Thank you!

This is the most beautifully written TIFU I've ever read. No problem. &gt;I go outside and find the perfect goddamn table because I'm a romantic at heart.
  
You're at McDonald's. And thus, The Phantom of the McDonald's was born. Where a masked man lives in the depths of the local McDonald's waiting for his love to return, hiding a face scarred with coffee burns from overindulging on the only connection they ever had. Was it worth it? Will you do it again? You should text her to see if she wants to go on another date.  "Hey babe!  Really enjoyed our first date.  You are very intelligent and beautiful and I would love to meet you for a second date.  Are there any other restaurants with point cards that I can buy you dinner at?"  I mean the ad didn't lie. It asked if you want to meet hot, local, singles in your area? Mission Accomplished. Sounds like the scam i saw on Facebook a while ago. Apparently chicks are now trawling Tinder for guys who will send them pizzas. That sounds like the beginning to a porn if I ever saw one. That's when you order them 50 pizzas and choose the 'Pay with cash' option. Well, think of how much worse it could have been.  This dishonest girl could have played a long con that could have done some real damage to your financial and emotional life.

A few Euro to filter out a dishonest person from your dating pool?  Totally worth it. /r/onthebrightside you're da real MVP 
 You message her telling her that you didn't mind and got a good laugh out of it, she appreciates the good disposition you have and agrees to go on a real date which, much to her surprise, is one of the best dates she's ever had. Time passes, things get serious and you propose to her, it's a beautiful wedding and as you stare into her eyes you reflect back on the strange series of events that have lead to this. You honeymoon in the tropics in a lovely beachside resort which, as fate would have it, has a McDonald's across the street. You joke to your wife that you should grab some coffee, with a giggle she agrees. You pay for the coffee and she gets a stamp on a very old, very worn McCafe card. The store is low on seating and she asks you to find a spot while she waits for the drinks. After 15 minutes you text her asking if everything is alright, she texts back explaining she could never love any man the way she loves McCafe. I was seeing this go completely different.

&gt;You message her telling her that you didn't mind and got a good laugh out of it, she appreciates the good disposition you have and agrees to go on a real date which, much to her surprise, is one of the best dates she's ever had. Time passes, things get serious and you propose to her, it's a beautiful wedding and as you stare into her eyes you reflect back on the strange series of events that have lead to this. You honeymoon in the tropics in a lovely beachside resort which, as fate would have it, has a McDonald's across the street. You joke to your wife that you should grab some coffee, with a giggle she agrees. **You *forget* your wallet in the hotel room. She pays for the coffee and she gets a stamp on a very old, very worn McCafe card. The store is low on seating and you ask her to find a spot while you wait for the drinks and leave her waiting at the McDonald's.** holy shit what a brilliant idea.

I mean, yeah..sorry :( For a cup of fucking coffee? I think a nice meal at a restaurant would be the bare minimum...  Try not to get despresso'd. A latte could have gone wrong but the worse that happened was you got mugged for a cup of coffee. Sure, it's a grind to get played but try not to be brewing mad over this. So perk up and stay strong because you bean through worse. Thanks for saving some puns for the rest of us! Your selfishness really got me steamed. Gevalia Its really too bad she didnt want to meet there for lunch and steal a Hamburger.  She'd be an actual Hamburglar.   Well she was definitely German. Who else would set up a time to meet at 11:40? Commonly one would say 11:30 or 11:45. I used to live in Berlin and once had a guy who was coming over to fix my radiator tell me that he would be there at 3:07! WTF? I've had terrible luck with those dating sites, too.  

Eharmony sucked.  First off, they apparently don't recognize the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Taints since it wasn't an option in the drop down menu for religion status. I was left with no choice but to select "Christian" instead. This proved moot, though, because as soon as I mentioned my crucifixion fetish in a chat, I was promptly banned. 

Jdate wasn't much better, although not being asked about my religious affiliation was a huge relief. I did manage to go out on several dates with young women who were quite nice albeit lacking in diversity. Also, the owners of the site should probably look into changing the name because none of of my dates ended with a "J" of any kind. No bj, no zj...not even a friendly hj. 

Grindr has actually been ok. The people are incredibly friendly. And best of all, literally all of them are DTF.  They're mostly dudes, though, so I haven't been on any actual dates yet. Fingers crossed I'll find at least one young lady who is even one tenth as enthusiastic about giving blowjobs as the fellows I've encountered there.  I'm guessing your crucifixion fetish wasn't a problem on Jdate, however? You know, after the whole eharmony debacle, I felt it best to keep that fetish to myself.    Chin up. They just didn't appreciate a well-hung man is all. Good comment, you nailed it. ~~I'm just gonna cross out this pun.~~ &gt;Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day

Silly Mormons, you won't get much luck on non Mormon dating sites

&gt;Taints

Wait what?

&gt;Vargas

Oh.

 Wait, there's a zj? if you have to ask... You can't afford it. It's a handjob given by Jay-Z.  ah man, eHarmony.

Here's my eHarmony story: their survey takes like at least an hour to fill out.  It's a real pain in the ass.  It's such a pain in the ass that I almost quit several times, but once you get so far into it you're like "fuck it, I'm this far, might as well finish it, what's the worst that can happen?"

Well, apparently the worst that can happen is you jump through all their hoops and at the very end they say "sorry, we're never going to be able to match you with anyone, kbai."

I don't know if you remember, but the founder of eHarmony was sued (and won, I think) for discrimination because the site only really matches Christians with Christians and that's all its supposed to be for I guess.  In any case, don't ever fucking click "atheist" or "agnostic" or "other" when selecting your religious preference because you'll waste a shit load of time and get all the way to the end before they tell you to fuck off forever. Yeah well it's not called eHeathen for a reason buddy. That was basically my exact experience with that website. Spend an hour to fill all that shit out, and at the end it's like "Sorry fuck you buddy. Your kind should go die alone in a ditch." Yeah, the place sucks balls. The ["founder"](http://americansfortruth.com/uploads/2009/01/neil_clark_warren-2.JPG) kind of weirds me out, too. He looks like a demon who took the form of Mr. Rogers in order to gain our trust, but secretly he wants to bring forth the antichrist, who will reveal himself after The Rupture.  The Rupture sounds painful. Try OKCupid.  I've had rather promising luck there over the years. I'd like to, but I don't live in Oklahoma. Yeah the odds are good, but the goods are odd. [deleted] I get the hate but why are there sideways testicles next to your comment?  It's a windy day. I think he's just saying that there are less than three of you.  And I only know of one of you, so the math checks out. dorothy mantooth was a taint If you're looking for a bj, grindr is the place to find it. Just close your eyes and think of your favorite female celebrity. 
 Now I ain't saying she a Mcgold digga'. Met a girl off Tinder. Perfect. Amazing. We were exactly the same and clicked in every way possible and we were both sure that we'd found our perfect matches *PUKE* She'd turn up and surprise me, bring me cute presents, told me I made her feel safe, all the good feels. Best 2 months of getting to know someone, ever.

One series of problems though.. She had a suicidal exboyfriend that was stalking her,  a history of chronic dishonesty, and a brain tumor. Told me she needed to disappear after an amazing weekend of laughing, fun and her not wanting to leave my side ever. Cut me out her life in the space of half a day. Haven't spoken since. It felt bad. 

Haven't shared that with anyone, reddit. Feels good to get it off my chest. Not sure how I feel.  Chronic liar, you say? Then I wouldn't believe anything about suicidal exes stalking her or brain tumors. Those are surprisingly common lies. So let me get this straight.  This bitch scammed you for about a buck fifty? 

Jesus scam artists are getting real desperate nowadays She just doing it for the thrill at this point. Eh? You paid a few euros for probably 3,000 Karma on Reddit. That's a pretty good purchase right? Ba da ba ba ba, I'm robbin' you! Bitches be thirsty For the McD I don't want to be a downer, but it seems more likely that she just changed her mind about the date and didn't want to deal with confronting you with an excuse to bounce The last two paragraphs need a fucking soundtrack. This thread has been linked to from another place on reddit.

- [/r/hailcorporate] [IMO this story is a perfect example of rules 3 and 4. (Check the dude's post history. If he's a paid shill, they've been at it a long time.)](https://np.reddit.com/r/HailCorporate/comments/35y2td/imo_this_story_is_a_perfect_example_of_rules_3/)

- [/r/hailcorporate] [McTIFU By Posting my Corporate Advertisement Screenplay on Reddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/HailCorporate/comments/35y1ux/mctifu_by_posting_my_corporate_advertisement/)

- [/r/jonwolf] [Joan Wolf tricks her way to a free McCaf](https://np.reddit.com/r/jonwolf/comments/35zbhl/joan_wolf_tricks_her_way_to_a_free_mccaf/)

- [/r/okcupid] [He trusted a hot local single in his area... What happens next will shock you! \[x-post from TIFU\]](https://np.reddit.com/r/OkCupid/comments/35y3wp/he_trusted_a_hot_local_single_in_his_area_what/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, respect the rules of reddit and don't vote.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger/wiki/) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose/?to=\/r\/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot) Guess she McChickened out... You deal with obvious rejection in an imaginative yet admirable manner. Ice(d) cold.

Maybe she didn't think you were attractive? No idea.  Alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright! Okay, now ladies! Luckily it wasn't Starbucks... You'd be out a couple hundred bucks. I would date the fuck out of you.  Do you want coffee or pizza. Don't do it man. She's going to use you for some Papa Johns rewards. Free pizza &gt; Free coffee [They do it with pizza too.](http://distractify.com/beth-buczynski/pizza-is-coming-soon/?ts_pid=5) I'm lovin' it This is probably the most well written FU I've seen. You've got an excellent, humorous, style. Thanks for the laugh! [Narrated](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dLu-wIaSRC8) How much are coffees at McDonalds, like 2 dollars at most? Continuously conning people for frequent coffee stamps would be way too much effort. maybe it's not for the coffee? maybe it's a thrill. I almost didn't click on the link to this page because i thought I'd get 40,000 viruses. The phrase 'hot single local in my area' scares me. Nice try, Jared.  Hamburgler's daughter? The first time you set up that app, it tells you that sometimes you'll get attention check surveys.  You got got. I've been Googled. [Now you have!](http://lmgtfy.com/?q=honeybadger21) WE GOT YOU, RICKY. I'm coming back for that sexy shit stain Julian later You heard em, Julian! He said the shithawks were comin'. The fuckin' SHIThawks! You didn't get me. I was getting cocktails. The pretty girl got me Whaaaat? This is awesome. Welcome to "being a dick online in 2006." \&gt; "I'll take 'How to be a dick online in 2006' for $1600, Alex"  
\&gt; "This site, created in 2008, is how time travelers are dicks to others when they go back to 2006"  
\&gt; "What is lmgtfy.com?" At first I thought this was a gif... how have you guys been on reddit and n never seen this site lol He's been Scroogled. Lougled honeybadger21 DGAF. [deleted] what's the app called?  [Google Opinion Rewards](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.apps.paidtasks) 'Not availible in your country.' - TIL Google don't GAF about my opinion. Congratulations! You don't matter.  We have  legal restrictions in many countries. Also, we need to have people who actually want to pay to run surveys in your country. So until there's enough demand... No supply of surveys.  I've had this for about a year and a half and have gotten at least fifty bucks in credit over that time.

I've been honest most of the time, though my friend whom is twenty years older than me and female has gotten a lot more surveys than I have. You got $1? All I got was $0.21 I got nothing! What the heck Google?? I didn't get a dollar for not going to the water park :( Same here, just installed, got kelp water park and a free virtual dollar. OP is secretly a Google Shill blowing the marketing budget on Reddit, $1 at a time. Not gonna complain.  We don't get got. We go get. I got the same survey this morning.

About 2 years ago I recevied a survey through the app asking if I had read a specific novel. I wanted the sweet sweet google play credit so I said of course I had. There was a string of questions that followed about very specific plot points in the novel, to which I answered in a way that I thought would net me the most amount of money.

The last "question" simply said something along the lines of "This novel doesn't exist. How does it feel to lie to us?"

Google actually provided a *text box* to provide a written answer.

I haven't lied to Google since. I hope you wrote at least a paragraph in response. 500 words double spaced. But... but... the word count doesn't change based on spacing! My grades finally make sense! Learning! But it does affect readability. Bu socials teacher wouldn't accept any essay or assignment unless it was double spaced. Teacher wife tells me it's also to make room for things written in red ink by teacher.  A m  I  d o i n g  i t  r i g h t ?  I wrote my first essay like that, hard as hell to proof read.  &gt; FTFY

Am

I

doing

this

right?       a     m
    
    
      I
     
    
      d     o      i      n    g     
       
    
      t     h      i      s 
      
    
      r     i      g      h    t     ?
ftfy Yeah, but he pinched the margins half an inch closer together and made the font 1.5 points larger. Wrote a novel. It exists now motherfuckers. This is a good idea... Someone should do this just for shits and giggles! And then post it on Reddit and get 0 upvotes thus making them realize they wasted years of their life.  TIL regardless of writing a novel, if you didn't get karma for it, it was all a waste. He should have plagiarised someone else's apology though, for style points. So...what did you put in the text box? ["Sorry"](http://imgur.com/szBNKNQ)

In hindsight I should've written them a short story using using the characters and plot points from their survey. Then who's the liar?

 ^^It's ^^me Could have written a short story with the plot you've described and send them the link. Battletoads  That text box is for you to write the novel. You should write the novel just to prove them wrong.  I want the google employee who reads those text box answers. *I want to know what people have said.* &gt;How does it feel to lie to us?

Masturbatorial Your story had it's ups and downs... 

...just like the streets of Manayunk. [This guy gets it](http://media2.giphy.com/media/7Dk4apSbWKpZ6/giphy.gif) Oh gosh. I would feel so bad :( Have you still gotten a lot of surveys since then? :^(
 I do, the almighty google is a forgiving god. I find that once my balance gets &gt;$10 I rarely get surveys--but once I use some they start rolling in every few days How soon can you start a new water park business,  name it Kelp water park,  and advertise it on Google? 

Then you can say to Google "See Google..... YOU were wrong .... You don't know everything Google"  at that point, its on google, and they will know about it so then they do know everything. I'm talking about passing it off as something Google did not know when OP took the survey.  That is insane. I got the same survey today morning but morally decided to say that I hadn't been to that water park. They didn't even pay me the USD 0.10 that they normally give as a courtesy saying that some surveys do not pay.

Wow. That's really intelligent of Google for doing that. I once noticed I received the same survey twice and had lied on it the first time but pushed myself to remember what I had said the last time and got through. I remember thinking that maybe just maybe Google was verifying what I was replying. 

But this is interesting... I'm going to be extra careful about how I answer these surveys now. Thats weird. I just installed it and answered "No" and it gave me a $1.00 credit. I guess that's your first survey? In my using of this app since last October, I've only been paid USD 1.00 twice. Once at the beginning and once about six months later.

The reason I'd say this is because when I first used it and saw the USD 1.00, I thought it would be an awesome way to make some money (college student here) and was heavily disappointed when all the subsequent surveys pay &lt;USD 1.00 per survey. This may just be me... Dunno. 

Anyone else have similar experiences like this? Yeah, it was my first survey. I guess it is a way for them to get you hooked. "Old" survey user here - I answered 'no' (since it was the truth) and it paid me 30 cents. I set up the app a week ago and still haven't gotten a survery. Is this normal? Yeah, don't expect it to give you one everyday. Just be grateful for the occasional two dollar surveys that will get you that much closer to whatever you want to use it for.  I've been using it for months and have never gotten a two dollar survey. 

After looking at it, since September I've made $16.59 [deleted] It's definitely usually under $1. I got a $1 or $2 one recently (don't remember which) that had me watch a video ad and answer questions. I guess I they were beta testing that, but I answered honestly, and if others did too, they probably won't be commonly implemented.  I have had 6 $1 surveys over 18 months. One of them was yesterday (don't remember if it was the water parks one) When I got the survey, it specifically stated that it was not a survey for credit but a survey to determine my eligibility for future surveys. They do this a lot to clarify whether surveys would be appropriate for your demographic in general, or apparently to weed out these people who lie. You may have skipped over this first set of instructions in a hurry to just start the survey. I'd recommend taking it slower just in case they test you in other ways, like instructing you to just answer a certain way in subsequent questions. I think I've gotten that before too.  I just got the same survey.  I hardly ever get surveys from google; I've made only ~$1.25 from the app so far.  I was seriously considering lying for the first time for some more surveys.  Glad I didn't! I've made $66.82 on the app since I started using the app since Dec 2013. If it was a full time job with 2 weeks unpaid vacation, I've calculated that I've made 1.3 cents per hour. After taxes and deductions, 1 cent per hour. Not bad. 
I think that's more than the kids who made my sneakers. Damn, you are doing a lot better than I am.  I just checked and I've been using the app since Nov. 2013 and I've earned a total of just over $18.

I normally don't answer the surveys that say they won't be paying, but for some reason I did this morning. And I even answered honestly, for once.  :-) Thanks. Yeah you gotta answer all of them, because the non-paying ones tell them to send more on that topic. That's partly how I get 1-2 per day. Also, answer them right away. I have no evidence for this but I think if you answer them immediately on a consistent basis, they like that and send more. Last, say yes to almost everything. Not everything, obv, because they test you sometimes like this water slide question. Read every question and answer and if it's something you've never heard of, google it to be sure it's real. That includes multiple choice questions with several checkboxes. LOL @ "google it to be sure it's real". Next thing you know google's gonna start putting fake google results in to fool you into lying on the lie detector surveys. Finally found a use for bing! What, besides their image search ^^for ^^porn ? I've made like 8 bucks on it in a few months. I'm always honest, so I guess I'm in a lot of their target groups.  I've made $12 telling the truth since October. Maybe it has something to do with me being in a popular college town, however most of my surveys were "Have you been to one of these places recently?" "Yes, I went to Walmart." "Great! Here's $.50." You know, I find it creepy that they know I've been certain places.  I got a SURVEY yesterday asking if I have been to any of these places recently. Subway was one of the choices. The rest were no.  The next question was did you visit yesterday, the day before, last week , last month.  so basically, google already knew I was at subway the day before and just wanted me to confirm it.  I wonder if they are using these surveys to evaluate the accuracy of their data mining capabilities/algorithms.

Edit:proofreading They ate using this to gauge the accuracy of their maps and GPS, as well as other forms of location finding. I get these all the time because I always leave my location on my phone on. Most of the time they ask about places that I went to but didn't get directions on maps to.  At least for me, I get some that I've not been to any of the choices given. I think it just sees that you've been in close proximity to these places, then wants to know if you went in or not. I accidentally hit yes to the first question since I was still half asleep then on the second put, "No I haven't been there" Got the same survey this morning... ALMOST answered yes because I went to a VERY small waterpark at nearby lake this weekend. I just didn't know what its name was.

Had to switch over to google and google it... almost got... got. *everyone rushing to download google survey* Google Opinions Rewards is the name btw, just downloaded it. I can't find it??

Edit: Not available for people outside US, and I doubt APK would work

http://imgur.com/oj1bBvt I have it installed in Canada for at least a year. I use it in the UK  It's available in Australia. Just certain countries it seems Works in Germany. I'm feeling like it ain't available in NZ. When I was a kid we had a "black box" to get cable for free -- pay-per-view, HBO, etc. One day my parents had some friends over and they brought their kids.  
  
So us kids are flipping through the channels and we find this "quiz" channel where it asks us a question every hour or so, and it tells us to call a phone number with the answers. A new winner is drawn every hour to win tickets to a Yankee game, it said.  
  
Anyhow, it was the same deal as this Google survey. The quiz channel was run by police; there was no way to subscribe, so the only way the channel wouldn't be scrambled was if you had a black box.  
  
We must've called that quiz phone line 20-30 times. All the kids who were there that day called in, and most of them didn't even have black boxes at home. But they all got calls from police.  
  
Had to turn the box in after that. Do not pass Go, do not collect Yankee tickets. Dad wasn't happy. Somehow I doubt the police had anything to do with it. Cable co set it up themselves to scare people "hey, we know you're breaking the law! turn in that illegal box or we call the cops on you!" [deleted] Must have been a real bad lawyer if he couldn't afford cable.  [deleted] I'm Paul McDonald, the Product Manager and co-founder of Google Consumer Surveys. We are the team that built Google Opinion Rewards.

honeybadger21, you're right, you did f-up. Don't worry you can redeem yourself. We'll send you fewer surveys or smaller rewards until you can prove that you can answer honestly but you aren't banned completely, at least not yet.

The best way to get more surveys and higher rewards is to answer every survey honestly. There are many signals we use to determine how honest or accurate a respondent is, this type of survey is the most obvious signal, and we use those signals to decide who gets surveys, and how often they get surveys. 

As you can imagine the incentives are tricky. We want to reward users for completing surveys honestly and give them higher rewards when they do more work for our researchers. We don't care about how you answer the survey, as long as its honest. There are real businesses making real business decisions based on your responses. 

So to everyone who commented that you need to answer a certain way or use Google to make sure a business exists before you answer - you're doing it wrong. Just give us your honest opinion and we'll hook you up with credits for your Hearthstone packs or whatever games, music, movies or books float your boat. 

 I hope you guys are going to get a little bit more aggressive with filtering out the scammers. 

It's kind of sad to see how many people lie and how proud they are to be stealing for what, 20, 40, maybe 80 cents. Then that goes and messes up the data. Then companies won't want to use Google for surveys. Then google will stop. 

People are greedy.  I've been screwed out of this app because Google fails to understand timezones.

It asked me, on the 1st of Jan this year "what year is it?" I said 2015. It asked if I was sure... I said yes, but I was correct.

It gave me zero credit and I haven't had a survey since...

It was Jan 1st in Australia at the time I recieved the survey. Fuck you Google. Maybe the point was to filter out people from Australia? You should have googled the park to prevent google at throwing a googly at you  Just....eh....not on an account logged into google that receives the survey. its not like its the NSA Yeah, the NSA aren't as efficient :P That's actually true. If it's a Google survey to catch cheaters, wouldn't Google put a fake result at the top that says "this park totally exists and it's awesome" to throw off the cheaters? you'd get threads like these saying the survey is fake And then the circle is complete Twist: The park actually exists and loses all its business because everyone thinks it's fake :( bielefield? Google would never tamper with search results that are not marked as adverts. Unless the remaining 90% of people start using AdBlock. Then I guess they will have to. Or, you know, answer honestly since that's what you're being paid to do.

But whatever floats your boat. Is this proverbial boat at said waterpark? Google is so friendly, don't lie to them! Feels bad man.  Google isn't mad.. Just disappointed. Swear to god man I just got this survey 15 minutes ago. Glad I didn't lie this time. Same here, got it this morning. There actually is a wild waters water park where I live, so I thought that maybe I just didn't know the full name or something. After reading the rides I realized it wasn't the same water park, and I got zero money for it. Thought that I should have just lied.

Glad I didn't now!  Should feel worse. Like something big shoved up his bum? How do you know he'll feel bad about that? [He's not even mad.](http://i.imgur.com/2iqFhEC.jpg) Very loose butthole Yea they already know your answers! Google is not friendly.

&amp;nbsp;
Google makes you think they are friendly.  And, sadly, it seems to be working. Hahaha you got caught! I got this same survey yesterday and answered honestly. I remember thinking afterwards "Kelp Water Parks? I've never heard of that. I should Google it." I had no idea it was a honeypot thing til just now.

I don't ever lie on my surveys although sometimes I'll stretch the truth, like when it says "have you recently been to any of these stores?" And I haven't been to any of them in years. I'm like, well what does "recently" mean? So I'll answer yes and it'll ask when the last time I went was, I just answer "more than a month ago."

Not really a lie, right? I remember they asked about my place of work, and I was like, "yeah I've been there recently." I did lie though because they asked the last time I was there and didn't give me the option for "I am sitting at work right now as I fill out the survey." Hoooly shit... I picked up my phone seconds after reading this... and I have a survey...

"Have you ever been to Kelp's Wild Water Slides"?

Thanks OP. You were going to lie, weren't you? Well, that *is* the implication, yes. In Soviet Russia google plays you! In USA, our money say "In God We Trust." In Soviet Russia, we have no money Hey. That's *Branson* good Guys, please don't do this. I'm a computer science grad student and there are large scale projects devoted to figuring out who's lying in surveys now because of people like this. Fact is, these surveys are very important (important enough for people to pay money for their results) and there could be a LOT at stake here. Depending on the survey, you may be influencing where people allocate research funds, or even development costs for a new product. I totally get that its awesome to get store credit for lying on a few questions, but there are so many people who do it now that some of us have to scrap all the results of a survey if we detect enough liars. It's not cool. 

Full disclosure: this isn't my area of expertise, so I don't have any first hand experience with this stuff. I've done one project thats been affected by it (by people lying on surveys), and I've seen a presentation by another grad student who's been working on a long term project to detect survey liars. This is why you don't incentivize certain responses. Google should have seen this coming. If they only reward people for answering in certain ways, then they're going to respond in those ways. Yeah that does seem weird. Not sure what their rationale is. Responses from their target demographic are worth more. But the responses are worthless if the people saying that they're in the target demographic really aren't in the target demographic. I've paid for a number of surveys to be administered. The problem a lot of times is that you just don't have the budget to pay for screening criteria. I may need 4000 responses to get useful data, at 4-5 bucks per response. That's already 20 grand. If only 10 percent of the population fits my criteria (e.g. People that have bought and used product X), my survey gets 10x more expensive. You just have to trust that the company administering the survey gives people enough hits that they don't feel like they need to lie, and ensure that there are some lie detector questions in there to clean out the losers (which sometimes ends up making your 20k survey useless).  Yeah from what I've seen Google's survey work like this:

Q: Have you used any of these products/services in the past?

Answer: No -&gt; Receive small amount of credit


Answer: Yes -&gt; Get follow up question, answer it, receive slightly larger amount of credit On the other hand, only that is fair, since the one who answered "yes" has to spend more time while the other can do something else. If answering "yes" and "no" gives the same credit, people would simply answer "no" all the time. Ofactorial is very correct here. Expecting people in large groups to behave in a way that's against their own self-interest and has no discernable drawback is irrational. They need to change the incentives, or the perception of the incentives, if they want truthfulness.

Rewarding truthfulness means there's no motivation to lie. (Though it should both reward truth AND punish lies, for best results). Turns out that the entire app was designed to test this hypothesis. &gt;If they only reward people for answering in certain ways, then they're going to respond in those ways.

Is it even possible to not do this? I mean if you pay the same for everyone then everyone will try to select the answer that will result in the least follow up questions. I guess they would just have to throw in the same number of irrelevant questions to make it equal. 

Ok, so you never went to this park, but based on your own preference would you prefer a park that has *this* or *that*.

If those questions aren't of any interest to the people doing the survey it doesn't matter, just bin them. But I get rewarded no matter how I answer. If I haven't been somewhere, I tell them I haven't, they reward me for my honesty. No, it's more like this:

When you take the demographic surveys or the ones that figure out what kind of consumer you are, they use those results to determine what surveys to give you.  If you aren't a target demographic, you won't get many (or any) surveys.

Therefore, people answer in ways that give them more surveys.  If it's a paid survey, the amount you get has nothing to do with answering the questions one way or another. You don't get as much though, that's the point LOL, years ago I was picked for a market response thing for $50, less than an hour's time.  Now I read quickly, but people were just flying through the thing and had it done in less time than it takes to read the questions.  

Never believe data from such things, unless it's for Family Feud.  
 This should be at the top. This program only exists because people are willing to pay for accurate survey results. If people lie in the app, it will be gone for all of us. I'm very happy that Google is trying to weed out the people who mess it up for all of us. People who compromise the integrity of the program should be removed swiftly.

I get a survey about once every 2 days, because I'm honest and answer all of them. Sometimes I haven't been where it thinks I have. They still pay me 0.15-0.30 for answering. I've made a little over $25 in the last year. I do a lot of online surveys for points which I can redeem for vouchers and cash. I can safely say that a *lot* of people doing these surveys are routinely lying in order to maximise their chances of getting a reward.

The baffling is, they don't seem to see that there's anything morally wrong with what they're doing, and genuinely seem to think it's the survey creators' fault for allowing them to cheat so easily.

I guess they steal cutlery from restaurants and toiletries from friends' bathrooms, because that shit is easy too.

EDIT: just to be clear, I don't personally lie on these things. You got Bam-googled Got the same survey this morning, I thought if sounded suspicious, like an amusement park in Spongebob. Dear Reddit, college kids are on break.   Dear College Kids on break,

Get off Reddit. Get a job for dat sweet, sweet work experience. Dear reddit, 

Got a job. So much down time. Wish I had more work. On reddit to prevent insanity. What do? Dear College Kid,  
Play with your doodly bits. Take pics. Post to Reddit for dat sweet, sweet karma. _ http://i.imgur.com/iRvCF6p.gif Dear slim, I wrote you but you still ain't callin'... I just downloaded the app and this was literally the first survey they gave me! Haha Same here, I answered "no" and they ended the survey and gave me a dollar.  OP dun goofed.  They give you a dollar the first time, I did it and got nothing. Aah! I didn't have my glasses on and mis-pressed "Yes," so I went back to do the survey over and choose "No." I'm glad I did!

I've had the app since shortly after it came out, and have made over $50 in Google Play Credit. I always answer as truthfully as I can. I did kinda the same thing, accidentally hit Yes *and* some option on the next page because my phone slid in my hand. I hit back and was able to re-take the survey, so hopefully that's the answer they recorded.  *Its a Trap!!!* Google knew you were lying all a long. 

The question is why did Google now decide to let you know it knew you were lying? Because Google knew he'd post to reddit that he was caught, thereby deterring others. Google knows all. Deterring, or incentivizing people to start looking this shit up on Bing using Opera? They probably have some stats that say that if people are confronted with their lies they might answer truthfully next time. Or they might actually want his new data in order to cross-reference the old answers. To guilt you into answering truthfully in the future. I hate that people don't answer these truthfully. I rather try to provide an accurate answer versus gaining 10 more cents. I know a few people who do it.  I received the water park question as well. It was the first question, and I've obviously never been there so I answered "no". Received $1.00 credit; honesty does pay! Just got it as my first survey. holla holla get dollar I always answer honestly. I've gotten near $40-45 from the surveys so far. The way I see it, you've made more money than any of use being truthful have been. 

I've been trying to do these truthfully, and I've made about 2 bucks. Then they started sending my surveys in french, and I presume that one of them was about whether or not I've been to Le Kelp L'eau Parc, because I haven't received a survey from them in what feels like forever. Bing gives out points just for browsing on their site. Idk if you'd want to but they don't scold you for just trying to get points Cool. How do you find bing again? try google Congrats to google, really. 

The survey sponsors pay quite a bit of money for the data.  They need to trust the results Irony is, you could have googled it. It's called a Red Herring. It is done in larger surveys too. Things like speeders and straight line checks are usually in place too. 

Also it is very likely all of your answers are stored and cross referenced. Ie. You can't be Hispanic single guy today and then married with five kids the next week and 40 years old. 
As someone who works in market research I'm glad you F 'd up. I got the same survey this morning and said "Who the fuck would name their water park 'Kelp Waterpark'" I proceeded to click no.  I received no play store credit for the answer and thought "I should have said yes..." I'm glad I didn't after hearing this! You should not have said "Yes", because you haven't been to Kelp Waterpark. I got this same survey this morning and was showing my friend how the app worked. I opened up the survey and he pressed no for me.  Set up a Slip N Slide in your front yard and order a sign that says "Kelp Water Parks".

Take a couple of pictures and sue Google for ~~millions~~ **BILLIONS**. Lmao, I got the same survey.  Answered truthfully though. Google isn't angry. Just disappointed. A good liar will easily make up stuff that puts the other person to blame. 

Google is a machine. I can break it's servers. Google: Do not bully with me or you will get smashed.

Edit: I am so high right now. I've not even lied to them, but haven't had a survey from them in well over a month now I also got this survey today. I said "no" I hadn't been there. It then asked me what my favorite slide was and had several options. I was worried I accidentally clicked yes, since Google uses location history for surveys and weeds people out. Then I saw the last answer was "I haven't been to Kelp Water Park". 

Google opinion rewards is great for free Hearthstone packs. Why do people lie on these? There is no value in lying and in fact makes whatever market research you're participating in less accurate.  Link please? Thanks. [Here you go. Remember, truth is justice in action.](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.apps.paidtasks&amp;hl=en)  *fuck* it's not available in my country I was so excited for this too, but was also met by that life ruining phrase "not available in your country"

http://m.imgur.com/1gw0tW1 About 20% of the surveys I get are about my personal business that always pay over $1.

The other 80% are questions like "when's the last time you've been to _______", "how did you get there?", that pay like 10-30 cents. But after a day of shopping, I get a lot of them.  The google overlords have spoken Ahaha, a PSA went out this morning on r/android too

http://www.reddit.com/r/Android/comments/35wqyt/psa_i_got_busted/ I just now signed up for Google Opinion Rewards and the first survey I got was the one with Kelp Water Parks.  By answering no, I received $1.00.  So not only did you screw yourself out of more surveys, but also out of a dollar. You got scroogled I read this post and downloaded the app immediately. The first survey I got was asking me about the water park. I answered no and got a dollar! Thanks OP! NO seriously where can I find this survey. I totally went to Kelp Water park! I wonder how many hits the search phrase "Google play survey money" Google had today. There's people who don't lie on surveys? Sorry to tell you this OP, but you'll probably be one of the first ones against the wall when Google's AI goes rouge. World we live in... Comparing search engine with your father... Google, quite possibly, could have been the only faithful friend you had.... HAD! I've never lied on a Google survey and I get survey prompts probably 5 times a week. I net about $1 a week in play credits. Between surveys and Chromecast offers I have earned quite a bit of free Play credits. SHIT I had that same survey today and thought "Eh why not tell the truth today?". The luck is real I accidentally pressed no. Thank you Based God for your interference in my life. I shall now continue lying for my money like the worthless scum I am. I literally LOL'd. Well played Google, well fucking played. HAHAHAHAHA Yes!! I got this survey this morning and I told the truth. WINNING. All that survey money is going to be mine :) As someone who is in the social sciences (really science in general) and needs to give out a lot of surveys online, fuck you. Fuck you ten ways to Sunday. If you don't want to do the survey for real, don't do the survey. Stop not paying for the answers you don't want.  You are in social sciences,  don't you know how incentives work? Dog-bro has his back. Make sure old mate gets him in the divorce.  &gt; Dog-bro

bro-dog

brog

bog? bog - god in Serbian. Serbs.  They know. Life makes so much more sense if God was actually a Bro-dog. Passes joint God backwards is dog. This can not be mere coincidence. Dog food lid

Backwards is

Dildo of god And about every other Slavic language   Also in Russian and Ukrainian.  Mog? Man-Dog? [I'm my own best friend!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jkz1i1CNUo4) great movie :) &gt;Dog-bro
bro-dog

BROJOB! I think that could be misconstrued.

[Herro!](https://marcolocatelli.files.wordpress.com/2014/06/gay-asian-men.jpg) You can't tell me what to do! *Clears throat*..... Lobsters! [Oh shut up.](http://i3.kym-cdn.com/photos/images/facebook/000/088/322/lobster-dog-030110-main.jpg) Drog.  The dog obviously likes the woman cuz he's not barking when she's around  And she wouldve gotten away with it if it wasn't for that rotten mutt! Oh, scooby Ruh'ro  , "  !!" Google translate is an awesome tool. Well.... what's it say? Basically: You meddling kids!

I don't think Google Translate works for "Scooby dooby dooo!!" Actually, it literally spells that out, just in the Devanagari script. But it's a phonetic transcription, translating it would just make nonsense?

Edit: Whoa google is really magic It phonetically says: 

"You mean, " You meddling kids!!" This isn't a fuck up at all, you just saved this dude so much probably. Kudos to you. I'm a divorcee myself, ladies , but that's still a fucked up way to find out. Not that there is a ever a good way to be told your SO is a cheater.  What the guy above said.

Even though you didn't know what you were doing, I'd like to think you'd do it even if you did. (or maybe you wouldn't the dude was a stranger and people get weird about this shit).

My way of finding out was months after a break up after the other guy left his fb logged on my PC (we were all friends) and I just had a nagging doubt. There are better ways to find out I'm sure. That's when you change his status to "I'm a backstabbing peice of shit that has affairs with other people's girlfriends" and watch his reputation take a huge hit. And change his password.  And make his birthday private! And subscribe him to Oprah's page And [this](http://m.imgur.com/gallery/bFwVN).  "Doubtless you've been approached by other Train Spotting Groups". Sure but do any other ones have a thriving gift shop and a wealth of technical data. I think you're missing a question mark. That was so good.
 /r/makeitworse is waiting for you guys! And subscribed. My way of finding out was via twitter. Boy oh boy was that a fun tweet to have pop up in my mentions please continue I was at work, her school has this account that tweets others tweets anonymously for you, so you direct message them your message, I got a mention that was long the lines of "man I wish x would cheat on me like she cheats on therealpeej3." Well I call her she denies it, than later I find out this wasn't even the first time she cheated. Oh well. Better I found out then kept my head stuck in the sand this makes no sense until I realized that then was a than in reality. I found out the hard way that my ex was cheating by getting the clap.  Even then I didn't believe it.


Dude already knew, he just needed concrete evidence.  You did this guy a solid. What is the clap? It is an STD also known as [Gonorrhea](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gonnococcal_infection).


Yet a better name for it - as the good old Rev. Sam Kinison named it - ["YOU FUCKING WHORE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=im9glfqYGsE) Did she have any jolly ranchers? goddamnit reddit I'm going to upvote this but know I am disgusted with you. And bacon.  It was a double win.  If you count that as a win.


[Link for the uninitiated](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/26rrby/whats_the_worst_text_to_send_a_girl_after_a_first/chu60pf) 



Edit:  Almost all of this shit is NSFW/NSFL.  Seriously.  Then it gets worse.  If you don't believe me, read [the blow flies.](http://blowflygirl.blogspot.com/2009/08/here-is-my-maggot-story.html?m=1&amp;zx=8d38feee68602fa0) #####&amp;#009;

######&amp;#009;

####&amp;#009;
 [**Gonnococcal infection**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gonnococcal%20infection): [](#sfw) 

---

&gt;__Gonnococcal infection__, also known as __gonorrhea__, __gonorrhoea__ and __the clap__  is one of the two most common [sexually transmitted infections](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sexually_transmitted_infection) in the United States  along with [chlamydia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chlamydia_infection). This infection is caused by the bacterium *[Neisseria gonorrhoeae](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neisseria_gonorrhoeae)*. The usual symptoms in men are a [burning sensation with urination](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dysuria) and penile discharge. Women, on the other hand, are asymptomatic half the time or have [vaginal discharge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vaginal_discharge) and [pelvic pain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pelvic_pain). In both men and women, if gonorrhea is left untreated, it may spread locally, causing [inflammation of the epididymis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epididymitis) or [pelvic inflammatory disease](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pelvic_inflammatory_disease) or throughout the body, affecting joints and [heart valves](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heart_valves).

&gt;====

&gt;[**Image**](https://i.imgur.com/ciUk9B8.jpg) [^(i)](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Gonococcal_lesion_on_the_skin_PHIL_2038_lores.jpg)

---



^Parent ^commenter ^can [^toggle ^NSFW](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&amp;subject=AutoWikibot NSFW toggle&amp;message=%2Btoggle-nsfw+cr6vf91) ^or[](#or) [^delete](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&amp;subject=AutoWikibot Deletion&amp;message=%2Bdelete+cr6vf91)^. ^Will ^also ^delete ^on ^comment ^score ^of ^-1 ^or ^less. ^| [^(FAQs)](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/wiki/index) ^| [^Mods](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1x013o/for_moderators_switches_commands_and_css/) ^| [^Magic ^Words](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1ux484/ask_wikibot/) Hmmm, image? No thanks! It's a small sore (looks like a wart) on a person's arm.  Maybe their calf. AAAAAAAHHHHHHH!!!!! Do you guys live in Millhouse's dads' apartment complex? Bachelor Arms! Where the swimming pool is now corpse free. Days since suicide: 21

*bam*

0 Everything's coming up Millhouse! I sleep in a racing car, do *you*? No, I sleep in a big bed with my wife Weird, I sleep in a big bed with your wife too. That must be a huge bed for you guys not to notice each other. Wife is pretty huge too.

Source: You don't really wanna know Strangest thing is, there's no female in it. Classic Grimey. Hey, who here likes the Doobie Brothers?  Cause we've got one of 'em! Can I borrow a feeling? "Hey, remember that if I have the tie on the door knob, I got a visitor!"

"You don't have a doorknob."

"Well I don't have any ties either!" You must be living in the saga of February -

**of last year**.


That's NOT my bag. I happen to love Texans, engineers and divorcees.... 

............ 


Dot dot dot Oh shucks! 

http://imgur.com/KEaZqYs 
 You're better looking than I hoped AND expected  What're you wearing "jake" from "State Farm"? 

I can understand your doubt as this is Reddit, in all its glory.  Jeans and a t shirt. I may be a simpleton but I am proud to say I don't wear khakis 

often Now kiss [Now ~~kiss~~ kith](http://i.imgur.com/hUNAo.jpg) This yielded a boisterous, audible laugh Now we wait to see if OP likes cats, Supreme, and dots.  

 Well, I do have a dog too, if you think that will improve my chances

Edit: he doesn't bark Only when you're out of the house for a bit. Best Edit May 2015 I mean he found out by talking to his wife and asking her questions. That seems like one of the least fucked up ways to find out. I'd rather that than hear it coming from literally anyone else. Yeah, I agree. I'd rather have someone fess up than deny, lie and scream while you literally hold screenshots of texts blatantly stating she is fucking around... Or you know, an STD.. Or a baby that's not yours.. Or someone else telling you.. Or catching her in the act. Lots of worse ways, I can't think of many better ways though. Props to the guy for making the clever deduction! I'm gonna guess he already suspected, this was just the icing on the cake. I am still impressed Better than never finding out. Finding out is always better than not finding out. Yeah its a fucked up way to find out, but maybe the only way he would've. I tip my hat to you for having the balls to put your name n it, and help this dude get away from a nasty pos wife. You got a friend out of it though! Solid Brojob, buddy. [deleted] [deleted] Agreed. this is his wife's TIFU moment, not yours or his. "TIFU by not putting a bark collar on my dog when I went out to cheat on my husband" What is a bark collar? How does it stop a dog Barking? It's a dog collar that has a sensor attached to detect a dog barking, and whenever the dog barks loudly, the collar emits an interrupter, it can be a burst of air or citronella, or a very tiny electric shock (tingle, like what you get when you touch a grounded metal thing inside on a dry winter day).  They can be remarkably effective, but are supposed to be used for training (not, like, constantly).  
 It emits an ultrasonic burst whenever a dog starts barking. It's painful to the dogs, so theoretically, it makes them stop barking once they work out the connection.

In reality, you're not actually fixing the cause of the barking, and most dogs habituate to it after a while, so the barking starts again. Plus since it's too high for humans to hear, you can't tell if it's loud enough to mess up the dog's hearing, which more than occasionally happens. Oh, well that's not good then :( poor dogs! and you probably just made a good friend Agreed.  Sucks to find out, but it has to be done. You unwittingly did this guy a favor. It's better for him to find out sooner rather than later.  /r/animalsbeingbros How did I not know that existed!?  Why did he ask you to confirm the hours or tell you any of this if he already got confirmation/confession from his wife when he asked her about it? I think he just needed someone to talk about it with... :( Entirely reasonable Yeah, poor guy :( Fuck if I know. Maybe it hadn't processed yet? It's a pretty fucked up thing to swallow right away That's what she said, for several hours during the day, apparently.

^^^^^(sorry) Too soon. Til Noon? http://hugelolcdn.com/i/112712.gif Oh yeah???  Well [ FUCK YOU, BUDDY.](http://i.imgur.com/oveEloK.png) That was a way better reply than I ever expected. Shouldn't have mentioned you-know-whats. [I can't help it](http://i.imgur.com/8RQLCGS.jpg) 5 minutes previously..

[...doin' it lobster style](http://i.imgur.com/SAolOK3.png) I was willing to believe that MAYBE you had the first image already prepared from the last time someone sent you the rage-fist image, but I feel pretty confident that this one was specifically drawn for me. 
Best novelty account ever. Probably purely to try and ensure the information on hand was correct. For instance, OP could have potentially reduced the time window in the note to be polite, or increased it to create more urgency, and the wife could have not corrected it due to having more pressing matters at hand. But she already confessed . . .  Maybe to guess how often she cheated him, depending on the schedule? The more complete it was, the more often she cheated him... OP, you said some pretty disparaging things about that dog-bro. Time to spologize. I'll wait for my summons to Judge Judy in regards to its slander lawsuit  /r/KarmaCourt is gonna get you!  'Spologize.  I like it. "Lucy, you have some 'spologizing to do" Dog was a total bro /r/TIDTRT (Today, I Did The Right Thing)

Seriously though, well done. You saved your neighbor from that slut. I didn't even know that was a sub! I don't know why I'm surprised, there's a sub for everything  Ain't that the truth... There's some shit here that I've stumbled into, that there isn't enough alcohol, chocolate, eye bleach and mental floss to fix. /r/Eyebleach  Awww... We could always surgically remove the part of your brain that has that memory. If /r/hatcovetingPutin is a sub, there is most definitely a sub for everything I can't stop reading that as /r/TITDIRT Its popularity would be more prevalent if it was  That's not Mickey Mouse, that's TIT DIRT!  Today I Totally Did It Right, Tho?  You didn't fuck up at all OP. Instead, you saved him lots of trouble. Now tell him to hit the lawyer and get a gym  I'm not sure if hitting a lawyer would do him much good, but if he wants to buy a gym I can't say that's a bad thing.

Unless he buys the gym so that he can work out and in turn punch the lawyer more effectively. In which case he would be a far smarter man than I. You didn't fuck up. You saved your neighbor from a toxic relationship So I sorta had the opposite experience with a fucking little yippy dog.

My wife and I were arguing one day and she wanted to leave the apartment and go drive somewhere. I was afraid she was going to get herself in some sort of trouble or harm, so I was trying to talk her out of it.

I'm not proud of this, but we were yelling at each other, and I followed her out to our car. On the way, we passed by the apartment in another building but that was sort of basically across the way from us where there was one of those incessantly barking fucking little yippy dogs.

They'd let it out and it would yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip yip and that was on a GOOD fucking day.

So we pass by, and it's out in front of its owner's door, and I'm yelling at my wife that she needs to not leave and pass by that goddamned dog and mid-stride yell at the owner "And you need to shut that fucking little yippy dog the fuck up!" and go back to yelling at my wife.

Not long after that, though, as we were arguing, we both started laughing about me yelling at the dog and it calmed us both down and we went back inside and I think we worked things out.

Also, in our defense, we don't yell at each other often at all, and it's very very rare these days, and I'm also proud to report that neither of us has EVER resorted to physical violence. 

I still feel a twinge of guilt, but also a twinge of pride at yelling at that fucking yippy dog, though. heh. You mean [Yip yip yip yip yip](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-2ZkJd4u0Us)?  TIL dogs can't read English &gt;To everyone that asked why he came over when his wife confessed, I have no fucking clue! If you've ever been cheated on, it's a tough pill to swallow. Maybe he was shell shocked, or looking for some sliver of hope that I was wrong about my times. 

This is correct, after I found out my ex-husband cheated I told all sorts of people I normally wouldn't share personal info with because I was just in a state of WTF shellshock.  So are you able to finally get some sleep now? Who's keeping the dog?? I think he let her keep it. And I have since been discharged from the military and moved out of state. So to answer your question, yes, I get plenty of sleep now.  You didn't cause a divorce, his wife caused a divorce.

 I think it's awesome that you guys are bros now, the circumstances suck how you guys initially became buddy's but if anything that note saved him more time wasted and more suffering... I was once living in an apartment complex that had a balcony running all along the side of the building, that every tenant shared. There was a guy with a dog on my floor, too lazy to wlak his dog. He would just let him shit on the balcony. A few times the dog decided to shit right in front of my door. Once I saw it, followed the dog to its owners apartment, and told the guy and girl sitting on the couch that I was tired of their dog shitting in front of my door. A week maybe later, the dog comes back and does it again. I get pissed, pick up the turd, and go on throw it on their balcony door. There was another guy, not the same guy I saw before, who gets up real pissed and starts to yell and wants to fight. So I tell him I warned them before. He said I never did. So Isay yes I did, I told the girl and that other dude last week I tell him. The girl, sitting on the sofa, looks up at me with big shocked eyes. The guy, who had stepped outside, goes back inside. Looks like the girl was having an affair. Plot twist - It was all a ruse so op can have a new beer drinking buddy Jesus. Reddit makes me think everyone cheats. I'm no therapist or analyst, but I'm pretty sure her cheating is what caused the divorce.  Not you. Blissful ignorance in this case is HIV/aids, herpes, or HPV? &gt;yes, the end result was positive but don't forget that a marriage did end, and that's a fucked up and painful experience. 

To paraphrase Louis CK, divorce is always a good thing because no good marriage ends in divorce. If he'd already got a confession from his wife why did he need to check the times with you? To see how much she was downplaying her activities.  Why would he ask if you were sure about the times if he already had his wife confess to cheating? I'm confused, if she had admitted to him of having an affair, why did he come to you to verify the dog was barking?  Did he think she was lying about something so serious?  Usually the lie is denying there was ever an affair to begin with. Perhaps it's as simple as he was in a state of denial. good on you OP, now both of you go hit on ladies in the bar without remorse :D

silver linings I guess~ And this is why dogs are mans best friend  You didn't fuck up, you did that guy a solid. Dogs are some of the most trustworthy people I know.  Not a fuck up at all, You spared a guy from his cheating wife and made a new friend in the process.  Wish my shitty neighbors would divorce and get their shitty dog out of my apts. I work the 3am shift And it's over there barking at the Damn wind.  You aren't the bro that guy wanted.. you are the bro he deserved. I know that you feel like you fucked up here.  But if you ask this guy if he would rather have not known, once the shock wears off, I can all but guarantee that he will say no.  Being cheated on is not something that anyone wants to suffer through, and if she was cheating, it is very likely that their relationship was suffering in other ways as well.  You did him a favor, no doubt about it. &gt;I understand dogs don't speak English where they would understand a request to STFU

  
I agree dogs don't speak English but they do indeed understand it. When my neighbors are not home their little dog (outside in a fenced yard) yaps at anything that passing by. When he does I yell from across the street (in Thai) to STFU and he does.... until the next object passes by.
  
NOTE: I live in Thailand so this is why I tell him 'quiet' in Thai. So you are sort of right with my example as the dog I am referencing doesn't understand English but he sure in the hell understands Thai. I always believed that things happen for a reason. It wasn't a coincidence that you were the type to put times that the dog was barking and your apartment number. It'll really be a happy ending if he didn't have any children with her before the divorce. I wouldn't say this was a TIFU. I'd say this was a "Today I did someone a favor in the long run." I suspect that's why he came over. He was probably grateful on some level. I hope his life is better from here on out. I dunno, r/TIDSAFITLR is a bit of a mouthful. Thats brutal. I have no patience nor tolerance for infidelity. It pains me physically and mentally to read this kind of stuff. Hope the dude is hangin in there. As long as she took the dog with her? plot twist : the wife was having an affair with the dog Honest question - how did you fit the time of the barking onto the note? How would the note make sense while containing that information without being... Odd?  I loved this post; the way you write and everything made it hilarious.

I see TIFU posts all the time that didn't occur on that specific day it was posted and yeah, of course it wasn't a true TIFU, but it was a damn good story worthy of this sub.

Good luck to the both of you (you not having an annoying ass dog and he not being with a cheating bitch). :^) He better get the dog I was sure the yapping was gonna turn out to be his wifes sex noises.  This is how awesome friendships get made. Add that you were caught masterbating and off to the front page you goooo!!!

 The question now is which of the owners gets to keep this "Yappy, little fuck stick of a dog"?
 I don't think the dog and the wife are on very good terms anymore. Great story. I think you got the best possible outcome.  sounds like you saved a life rather than fucked one. Now you got a Beer bonding buddy. You didn't screwed up on this one. You saved a guy years of torment. You did a good thing,that guy deserves someone better  They deserve it for owning an obnoxious yapper. OP you are fucking awesome. I thought this was going to turn out like that guy who's son had sodomized the family dog and split the father from the family as a result. I guess this is kind of better. &gt; He could've gone on in blissful ignorance.

That would've been the real fuckup. He came to you because you had the balls to put your name and apartment # on it and he figured how bad can a guy like that be. Turned out it was a most excellent choice. The edits are totally worth it but let's be a bit forgiving you guys. TIFU is more about the stories than anything  So he came over with the note to make you confirm the times and tell you how strange the barking was, since the dog never barked when the wife was home, although his wife had already admitted to everything? 

I'm surprised you didn't get a crisp $100% bill! You sure deserve it for writing down the precise times and everything. You did not fuck up.  
You saved the day.

You are the hero that Gotham *deserves*. Mans' best friend. You did not fuck up, you did exactly what you should have, and the result was someone doing a very wrong thing being caught out.

He's not distraught because he's losing her, he's distraught because she's not who he thought she was. Fucked up?   You did your new friend a favor, before becoming his friend.  

You would make my Christmas card list if that happened. I would just like to remind everyone that she is going to get half the assets and quite possibly alimony. The dog sold her out. The dog was just asking you a favor to help him prove what is happening, explaining the barking. Ignorance is bliss, and reality can be a bitch, but I'd take reality over blissful ignorance any day of the week. Long run, he'll thank you OP. Ya dun good. The real question is: who is keeping the dog? You should of gone over and fucked his wife and then went to sleep. That way the dog would not be barking.  She is literally a bitch, isn't she?  I honestly thought that the story was going to be about the wife having "fun time" with the dog during her hubby's absence. LOL LOL. I thought it would turn out there was no dog, it was the noises the wife made while screwing the other guy Wife moves out, dog barks nonstop now. Ignorance is only blissful until you get herpes. Good on you. You lost an annoyance and seem to have gained a friend and your friend got rid of his awful cheating wife. Win win win I say. Should have went Dexter on the dog. Do people leave their dogs in crates while they're out of the house? A bit inhumane isn't it. Unlike some pussies I leave my name when giving gold. Little do you know, now that you've struck him down he will return more powerful than you can possibly imagine.

Watch out next time the two of you fight. He's probably in his room right now glaring at your picture doing pull ups.  Dad.

Nerf.

The Hound. He's go going to disappear for a little and come back with the ability to change faces. Unname me! &gt; He's probably in his room right now glaring at your picture doing pull ups

Nah, I think he's Filling a sock full of Legos. Then he'll call Dad into his room and hide behind the door.  Hiding behind the door only for dad to swing it open and knock him out one more. I'm terrified because I know how true this is :( If you need backup give me a shout.  I think we should team up.  there's a few of us.  
  
/u/babypunchingrampage  
/u/PUNTS_BABIES Sup.  Yeah I approve of this thread You all should form a Justice League. Isn't 5 a little old for you?  Nope. I don't need to be put on any list for saying theyre too old.  But 5 is no longer an infant! He doesn't punch only infants. He's an equal opportunity puncher. He's just advertising his willingness to punch infants. Most people won't do that. We need more people like him in the world.  Were you the potato that got delivered today?  He doesn't like to brag This guy... sales pitchin' it up. 2 fighters out of their league &gt; 1 fighter out of their league. Me too! But only if your kids are dolphins and you *really* don't like them Shouldn't you write dolphin rap first? Ok look, dude. Sometimes I just need a break from being the best dolphin rapper alive. It's lonely at the top, and occasionally I just need to unwind and joke around on reddit, understand? He will aim for the genitals and you will be the little bitch next time. I can see the kid yelling at his downed dad "FUCKING KO'D LIKE A LITTLE BUTCH."

"That's my boy!" &gt; Watch out next time the two of you fight.

Wear a cup. It's like a right of passage, KO your old man, boom you're the man  Are you imply that they are both Saiyans? I was going with more of the Obi-Wan vs. Darth Vader thing, but whatever. Well, he's only 5... this isn't even his final form.  Dad is Mihawk, son is zoro  That's a nice trip to the doctors.

"What the hell did you do to your son?!"  
"little fucker thought he could be win in a sword battle". "BUT I K.O.ED HIS LITTLE BITCH ASS! WHO'S THE BIG DAWG?? WOOF WOOF!" Oh for fucks sake, this thread is making me lose it at work. First the post final comment, then /u/I_PUNCH_INFANTS [comment](http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/35ufjx/tifu_by_punching_my_5_year_old_in_the_face_and/cr8ad8j?context=3) and now this. Its too much.  *pounds it , chest bump* [**WASTED**] (http://imgur.com/GKkA9gU) What movie is this from?
 I think it's from [The Campaign] (http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1790886/?ref_=nv_sr_1/)

EDIT: Adverts suck! Is anyone asking how my hand feels after punching that iron like jaw of that baby? Hey, your poll numbers actually went up. Cam Brady oh-twelve! Well your current record is one win, no losses , one KO. Better KO% than GGG &gt;FUCKING KO'D LIKE A LITTLE BITCH.

this was just great! lol next time use light sabers xD ARE YOU FUCKING SORRY?! Ha, Im on here often enough im starting to get these. ^^one ^^of ^^usssss



^^^^^one ^^^^^of ^^^^^ussssssssss gooble gabble gooble gabble ^usssssssssssssss ^s ^ss ^sss sssssnek Gesundheit I was thinking of something else. helicopter helicopter helicopter BAADGER BAAAADGER! Mushroom? Snake^Snakeeee Holy fuck you just brought me back to age 13  Raptor Badger Window Winner Hoes on Call (Pow Pow) Something related to Saints Row 3 I assume?  ( ~  ) "Swordfighting" [This came to mind](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UyLecTSNBkA) Did he whisper "Worldddddddstarrrrrrrrr" at the end...? the dark side wins I had to take my 4yo daughter to the ER after she squealed and turn to run away from the RC truck I was tooling around the living room. She tangled her feet and face planted into the wooden corner of her art desk. She comes up screaming with blood pumping in spurts out of her forehead.

3 stitches, 4 hours, and $1400 later, she's bragging to everyone about her 3 stitches like it wasn't a gushing wound.

I know the sick feeling as your stomach drops and you realize this is all your fault. Yea, $1400 for some stiches is a lot Not in America, thats a bargain! If you're serious, I feel sorry for you. I had 3 internal and 5 external ones on my face a few weeks ago and it came to $230 with a $90 rebate from Medicare making it $140. Australia is awesome, but sadly it cannot last.

Edit: I had a marble sized cyst removed from my lower right chin and stitches were needed afterwards. As an european, I'm totally baffled hearing about paying for some stitches. You still do, but gradually and through taxes.

Oh wait, we still pay medicare/medicaid taxes :/ yeah, i've gotten like 100 stiches througout my whole life (and that's not even a made up number) and never paid a cent for it :) Europe, the land where you get stitched together for free. Where else could you make ~~Frankenstein~~ Adam without facing bankruptcy? [Ah, the old Reddit Switchawound!](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/35s2je/whats_a_product_that_everybody_uses_but_nobody/cr7tf0y?context=4) Hold my needle, I'm going in! &gt; my full force punch...
&gt; only down and out for about 4 seconds.

Sounds like you punch like a little bitch. YOU DON'T SAY THAT  Shut up! You're gonna wake up my dad and get me grounded. You and your mom are hillbillies. This is a house of learn ed doctors. I'm going to get* a pillow case, and fill it with of bars of soap, and beat the shit outta you.  You're a big, fat, curly-headed fuck. I imagine him getting up, amusingly wiping blood from his lip saying "that's the best you got?" You're lucky you're his dad or he'd go full Inigo Montoya on your ass. Lol, he'll say whatever he wants to a man whose best shot can't even take down a 5 year old properly.   On a serious note, that is how long one usually takes to wake up from being knocked out. If it was any longer, he would probably have brain damage.  Hey! I got knocked out for 20 seconds when I was 7, and am fine I. Haha, I'm more referring to the scenes in the movies when they're knocked out for hours.  Reminds me of the time I hit my 4-year-old daughter in the face with a soccer ball. I was in full man-child mode trying to kick the ball into a goal as hard as I could. The best part is the I told her to move a little to the left in order to not be in the way. "A little to the left ... a little more ... perfect." I stepped into it and kicked it square at her nose and knocked her off her feet. In retrospect it seemed intentional since I told her precisely where to stand. She stood up after a few seconds just dazed with a WTF look on her face that I had never seen from her before. She didn't cry, though. I guess my kick is about as bitch-ass as your punch. LMAO oh them are fighting words!!!

Get your nerf sword.. BITCH [AND MY AX](http://ecx.images-amazon.com/images/I/31lDqkJOidL.jpg) I wanted that so bad, that and the axe+shield or mace+shield w/e it was combo. I once proclaimed to my friend group that I was going to beam our friend's 4 year old daughter in the face with a ball (one of those really light play balls). I thought I was joking. I then did exactly what I said I was going to do (I just assumed I would miss) and she fell over screaming. The fact that I'd announced my fake intention before hand didn't help my cause with the adults. I felt awful and the 4 year old ended up comforting me. 

Just to be clear there was no damage, just the shock of getting pelted in the face with something. I hate when you pretend to be a dick and it ends up happening lol I can't believe she didn't cry. You'd be surprised. It didn't hit the point of her nose, so much as the side. So it was more a flat face-on-ball impact. It also helped that I ran over and tried to distract her very quickly. She was stunned, no doubt. But she never cried. &gt; It also helped that I ran over and tried to distract her very quickly.

Yeah, running them over usually distracts them for a bit. "this will take your mind off the pain in your nose" *revs engine* It's when the parents panic and acts like the kid should cry, that they actually start crying. Sounds like it is time to upgrade to cold hard steel to avoid future mishaps. Or pure aluminum because the boy may not be able to hold steel swords yet. I think he proved he's not ready for steel swords be being a BITCH ASS LITTLE PUSSY My dad let me stick a fork in an outlet when I was 2,  soo I think you're doing substantially better (: Dude that's forked up.. It's shocking that he was allowed to be a parent.  The best parenting involves current events. Sometimes, you just have to give a kid an outlet for their curiosity. There are alternate ways... Son, yer grounded Can we stop fucking joking about this shit? It's not funny, and since his father's already so neglectful it's very likely that he hertz OP regularly, and he's going to continue doing so until we get him some help. Jesus Christ. Ohm man, I thought that was going on another direction. He was actually, but then alternated.  He wasn't very direct. I did the same thing and I was about the same age, but I did it alone, my parents weren't looking for a second then I got shocked. &gt; FUCKING KO'D LIKE A LITTLE BITCH.

I was having an absolutely terrible day today, but holy shit that cracked me up. Thank you lmao. :) Cheer up! I once dropped my toddler while playing, lost my grip and I swear to fucking god her leg bowed. She was on my back and I was standing so she fell from at least 4'.
That instant panic and regret is sickening.
She was fine, she wasn't happy that play time stopped. She's 14 now. I never did that sort of thing again. It's just not worth it! Thank God for cartilage! Haha and she doesn't resent you?

GOOOOOOD

He won't remember this ;) No. She does resent the time I tried to pull a tooth out that appeared to be hanging by a thread. I say tried, I succeeded. Never did that again either lol [deleted] That's actually metal as fuck.

I'd totally go for that if there was no risk of, like, the tooth not coming out and dragging the kid with the javelin...  That's fucking hilarious. Just picture it.

Dave from Accounting with his four-year-old son with a loose tooth. They are standing in their backyard. Dave tells little Billy to open his mouth, and proceeds to tie something to Billy's tooth. He then picks up a javelin, which is now connected by ~5 feet of cord to Billy's tooth, readies himself, and tosses the javelin in perfect form.

FFFFT! - The cord pulls taught.

"AAAAAA^AA^A^A^AHH^HHH" - Little Billy decides to follow the javelin over the neighbors fence, to land in front of some very surprised neighbors in their swimming pool.

[](/discord10) (Grown Ups 2 - Deleted Scenes?) Not after a healthy blow to the head, no. when I was around 12 I was play fighting with my dad. My dad boxed growing up. He trained with my cousin who is in the boxing hall of fame. Plus he is a gym rat and works out every day. So skinny 12 year old me and my dad are trading punches to the arms and chest. I am feeling myself because I have gone through a huge growth spurt and am getting stronger and taller. But I was still a bean pole. I start hitting him harder and harder so he does the same. But still not hard enough to hurt me. Well he throws a punch and I tried to duck it and well I ducked right into it. POW right on the chin. I didn't go out cold but damn he laid me out. I just laid on the floor looking up at the ceiling thinking I wasn't shit.  Little do you know he was just making sure you knew your place. OP and [this guy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M6UFcn6XiHA) should start an accidental child abuse support page. oh boy, did he ever Kinect  Even more proof Kinect destroys happiness
 Him and the water boarding guy He put her back on the couch and went back to destroying her brother at Mario Kart. /r/unexpectedabuser The fact that he didn't even stop to pause is a measure of the quality of that father Could've used you guys a few weekends ago during that boring-ass Pacquiao-Mayweather fight.  Yo... I RARELY laugh out loud to Reddit at work.  But your final line was a stroke of brilliance that demanded the hardiest of guffawing. :) YAY i made a day! Just not your son's.  Little pussy

dun care Reminds me of this top post from /r/BPT

http://i.imgur.com/ZtIy3uJ.jpg

Edit: meant /r/BatmanPhysicsTheories Just cherish this day. One day, when he's being a little shit, or especially when he's a teen. You're gonna wanna knock him the fuck out, and you can take solace in the fact that you already have.  You call this a good report card? That's it, get the swords! ELI5: WHY I GOT KNOCKED THE FUCK OUT  Sure, Dad. I bet you're always picking the Valyrian Nerf sword. Sweet Jesus that video was adorable As a young father of a boy(who has shot his kid with an airsoft rifle), I understood how this could happen and wasn't about to judge you, but watched your YouTube proof of happiness anyway.

I'm glad I did. You and your son seem awesome. You're doing a great job!  This is why I want a son. Growing up without a dad, I vowed to do stuff like this when I had my own son, aside from the punching lol.  You should do this with your daughter too, if you have one. Trust me, my dad and I did stuff like this all the time and I loved it. The play fighting part, not the getting knocked out part. Do both, just for good measure.  I want a son for the same reason except with punching. Until you realize your 4 year old doesn't have a half-strength. I'd rather take a punch from a buddy because unless I did something incredibly stupid, he's taking something off the punch and not trying to kill you. 

My 4 year old wants to legitimately knock me the fuck out. He's smashed a toy stroller over my head before and likes to throw sucker punches. Fuck him. And to him it's a game. If I'm  rolling on the floor or covering my face, he is in hysterics, laughing at me.  I'm really sorry, but I'm laughing far more than I should be right now. Usually I am too, just not the times I think he's broken my nose or I close my eyes and see flashes of bright light. 

I seriously had to buy him one of those punching bags that you inflate and fill the bottom with water. Now he kicks the shit out of an inanimate object and not me. 

I don't envy the first kid he decides he wants to fight.  One day he'll realize that it actually hurts and it'll be so cute. My little cousin was punching me and I was like "hey bud, that hurts!". He got so upset and started crying because he didn't realize that he was actually hurting me and felt so guilty.  &gt; To spice things up we always do "power struggles"... Pushing our swords together and then wrestling to make it more fun.  
  
&gt; Well today we did that... but his sword gave out and cracked in the middle...  
  
These lines could have been part of a much worse FU... The first thing I thought after those lines was, "Well, this could have went a different direction entirely." Your video was really adorably funny! I shared it with my 3 year old nephew. He laughed so hard he 'tooted.' Ha! :) :) classic laugh toot Boy does a good Gollum The best i've heard hey uh...does ur kid need a mom  I am dating a 10/10 girl right now I plan to marry :P Well shoot. Something tells me you're not right for him, /u/turnedonbysafety This incident didn't sound very safety minded. Might want to rethink the screen name.  Flawless Victory: Babality LOL.  Aw, poor kid, and poor dad.  He'll be fine though, and I'm sure what he'll remember most is playing with his dad. Brain damage works wonders. Won't remember a thing. You're right. He probably won't remember this at all. Out of curiosity, did you have to speak with CPS at the hospital?  Haha nooo they could tell by my dread that I was "innocent" if i was a child abuser i'm sure he wouldn't get a trip to the hospital Right on, glad to hear that! I was curious because my little sister fell off the couch and broke her leg when she was 2 1/2 and both of my parents were interviewed by CPS at the hospital to make sure it wasn't a result of child abuse.  Oh, I have a relevant story! When my brother was around 5, he broke his arm by jumping off a swing. Before taking him to the ER, my parents did the whole "Does it hurt when I touch here?" test. Later in the hospital, the nurses start to do the same thing to which my brother responds, "That's ok, you don't have to do that. Mommy and Daddy already hurt me!" My parents had a lovely conversation with CPS after that little comment. Yeah, and when my dad slapped me so hard that it punctured my eardrum they only gave him a warning. 

Different doctors I guess My dad burnt the back of my hand with an iron and told them that I touched it myself. It's been sixteen years and I still have an iron-shaped silhouette on my left hand. On the back as well - who touches something with the back of their hand (other than something possibly electric)? Have you heard about the body down by the tracks? Ya know, kids these days just can't be beat. &gt; I'm a 23 year old single dad

As a 23-year-old ne'er do well, ruffian and general layabout, I have to ask... how in fuck do you do that? Well. I have a very supportive and luckily decently well off family.

The mom still has half custody, i just meant i'm not married to her and we have always been seperated. Be thankful the mother is involved. I'm also a 23 year old single dad, with full custody. I'm regretting the day I have to have the talk with him about his mom.  YES!  The talk hurt me so bad.  35 single dad with full custody, and my son's mom isn't involved at all. He asks about her all the time. I wanna cry. 
 Yea I am in a very fortunate situation.

Keep going strong. It may be his mom but if she isn't a good person then he can't feel too bad about her not being around. "Ice cream should cure the wound, but nothing will mend the cracks put into the heart of a little boy getting FUCKING KO'D LIKE A LITTLE BITCH."

TOO MUCH KEK HAHAHAHA I had to end with a bang to make it not so depressing hahaha This reminds me of when I kicked a 3 year old in the face really hard.  I remember when I was like 16, my family and some other families were out camping.  I was laying on a lawn chair and one of the other families little daughter, she was probably 3 or so, was standing by my feet telling me something, and a big ass fly landed on my leg and bit me.  My reflex made my leg shoot up so I could reach down and swat it, and made me kick her in the face really hard.  I felt soo bad for a long time.  Her mom knew it was an accident, and didn't seem to get mad, but I think she was a little mad. I accidentally dislocated my daughters wrist when she was 4 by swinging her around by the hands.  She's 8 now and still reminds me of it regularly.  The little monsters never forget.  Watch your back.   :) ARE YOU FUCKING SORRY?? He will remember that. Then one day, after running, lifting weights, playing football, fighting in school, for over a decade... he will return the favor.

"Stay young, old man." - Your son. Whoever is threatening you needs to be smacked. Accidents between parents and children happen all the time. You did the right thing by taking him to the hospital. 

Truthfully I found your story telling quite entertaining. But I'm very glad your boy is okay. :) 
 [OP](http://blog.rottenecards.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/fsdf45343.gif) DILF Next time, try making you own foam swords...nerf swords are pretty weak.  Here's a simple formula you can use to make some from someone who's experienced LARP firsthand:

**Supplies:**

* PVC pipe *(you can use golf shafts and they're lighter, but not as strong and harder to work with)*

* Pool noodle and/or pipe insulation *(if using golf shaft, you pretty much need pipe insulation)*

* Pantyhose and/or cloth *(pantyhose is cheap and easy, cloth will last longer)*

* Packing tape *(the clear plastic kind, not duct tape.  As an advocate of duct tape, I like to use it everywhere...but NOT here.)*

* Duct tape and/or electrical tape.

* Rubber bands

* Camp pad *(just trust me)*


**Tools:**

* Hacksaw *(or any saw, really)*

* Knife *(or scissors)*

* Hands *(or a robot to do the work for you)*


**Now, steps:**

1.) Cut the pipe to a length reasonable for a weapon.  Remember to include length for a handle/hilt *(add about 1.5 inches to the bottom over what you want for this)*.  Cut the pipe about an inch shorter than you want the weapon to be *(after adding the space for the hilt...so add .5 inches over what you want in the end).*

2.) Line the upper end of the pipe with foam/pool noodle.  This should extend about an inch past the edge of the pipe.  That's for safety, given that a kid's playing with it.  Once lined, secure the foam to the pipe at the bottom with electrical and/or duct tape.

 --- Tip: to prevent the pipe from poking through as easily, cap it off by taping a penny to the end.

3.) Add some loose foam to the space between the end of the pipe and the foam.  Tape a piece of camp pad to the edge of your forming weapon.

4.) Repeat step 2 on the bottom of the hilt of the weapon.  This will make it safer should somebody get hit with the bottom of the weapon.  Apply camp pad again.

5.) Using pieces of tape as long as possible, and overlapping as little as possible, cover the foam on the upper end of the weapon with packing tape.  Poke several small holes in this, to allow the foam room to breathe/compact.

6.) Cover with cloth.

-- Tip: I've used e-tape to make the hilt look different, and this can be used over the pommel (bottom foam portion) as well.

7.) Hand weapon to your wife.  Have her hit you in the back as hard as she can with it.  *(This is to make sure that it's safe.  If she can hurt you, it's not safe.)*

--- Now you have a weapon that won't break as easily for your son. xD &gt;FUCKING KO'D LIKE A LITTLE BITCH. 
r/unexpected This is the only non-AMA thread that I just skipped to all the OP comments. He sounds like such a fun dad. Ah, the good ol' icecream-to-forget-dad-suckerpunched-you trick Are people seriously getting upset by this? If it was child abuse why the fUCK WOULD HE POST IT ON REDDIT? 

People man I'm five years older than you and not a father but if I ever have kids I hope to be half the dad you are.  The video you posted is great and you obviously have a great relationship with your son.   &gt;FUCKING KO'D LIKE A LITTLE BITCH.

Lost it. And just to think, I just posted a question asking about what to do with my son for the next three days. Now I know. 

 Good. Show your dominance. ALPHA MALE OF THE PACK  When he's 18 and he argues with you about taking the car out all night with his friends, that's when you say to him "Remember the time I knocked your ass out when you were 5? I've done it before, I can do it again." that video was so fucking cute. i think i died http://s1.dmcdn.net/lO4s/280x157-nbD.jpg When you threw your haymaker, you should have screamed "IT'S NERF OR NUTHIN' BITCH!!" With the reporting thing. I feel you, every time I do something by accident, I'm instantly threatened with the police. Like the fuck dude, I'm not allowed accidents? I'm automatically a piece of shit because I did something by accident? People need to chill the fuck out, not every dad abuses their child, we have accidents too. Fuck all these people talking shit and threatening.  

 Just a suggestion, the calamacil kids larp weapons are really tough, and a lot softer than nerf swords. They're kinda expensive, but definitely worth it Is that you, Vegeta? When my son was three he enjoyed running across the room like a maniac and diving onto my chest whilst I lay on the couch. One day I had my arms behind my head when he came screaming in. He tripped over his own feet and absolutely smashed his little mouth on my elbow. Blood everywhere. I felt so fucking terrible, but stuff happens. You'll laugh about it someday.  That video is fucking adorable. 

Side note, when he gets older and starts disrespecting your authoritah when he's with his friends, you can say "I knocked you the fuck out once, don't think I won't do it again". Then when he responds, "I don't remember that?" Be like, "Exactly" and walk out of the room staring into his eyes to assert dominance.  did something similar when my son was 12.  We were having an airsoft gun war and my shot went perfectly into his eye.  He was hurting bad and it looked completely red.  I thought he might go blind in that eye because it was awful and he couldn't see out of it for like a week.  But it finally got better and I no longer played airsoft wars with him. lol Goggles man. Contrary to popular belief, they do something.  [The goggles do nothing](http://i.imgur.com/3ec5huL.png) As a fellow single father, I commend your use of:
&gt; FUCKING KO'D LIKE A LITTLE BITCH. 

 My dad and I used to spar together every night. I used to do karate and sometimes it seemed like my dad never held back. He really kicked my ass. Often I'd go to school with bruises on my face, arms, legs. People used to think I had an abusive home or an abusive boyfriend. (People get shocked when they see bruises on a female). One day I held one of those bags where you practice kicks, i was practicing my stances to not be thrown off balance easily, lost focus as the kick came and I got kicked into the air and fell against the wall. This was the most epic thing I ever experienced in my life. I loved sparing with my dad, I got really good at karate because of him. Miss those times. So don't worry op hopefully your son will remember this as one of the most awesome moments in his life. Hope the little guy,  and your psyche are OK.  ;) 

I horse around with  my son all the time and worry I'll mess him up  by accident. 

Guess I get that from my Dad line driving me in the face at 12yrs old trying to teach me to pitch a ball.  A broke nose and 2 messed up eye sockets from a line drive baseball will ruin your day. 

I hit him in the balls with a fastball 6 months later when he was catching for me with no cup. 

I smelled...  Victory! 

To this day 30yrs later we laugh over this,  after a few drinks of course Hahaha.  Alpha as fuck. I know the sick feeling all to well. Unfortunately stuff happens, kids get hurt. We should be happy that there are parents who aren't completely uptight with their kids when it comes to safety and playing. My daughter does gymnastics and has the stamina rivaling a young cheetah so we do a lot of activities to let that energy out. Sometimes she'll take things to far or get me to chase her to either get her to stop running or get whatever she has in her hands. One time she is playing with her grandmas glass figurine and I tell her to set it down and she books it. I chase her down the hall pleadin with her to slow down and than (smack!) right into the corner of the doorway. She's screaming and has a pretty mean goose egg then her mother shows up and everything turns into Law &amp; Order. That night I stayed up keeping ice on her head and making sure we was ok. Worst feelings I've ever had.  What the fuck is up with the comments? Y'all are acting like he just ran up and punched him in the face. It was an accident you dumb fucks. Still a better fight than mayweather vs pacquio When I was a child, around 6 or 7, I was playing tag in a schoolyard on the weekend with my dad. I was "it" and ran full speed at him to tag him. He sidesteps me and I run head first into a pole that was behind him. Trip to the hospital and stitches across my eyebrow, the scar from which is still visible 30 years later.

His friends still laugh about how he called a bunch of them in a panic because he was too worried to call my mother and tell her what happened.

Don't worry about it. &gt; Edit: Ok some people are getting offended and threatening me.

Are you fucking kidding? Are people really that deranged?  Sorry OP, but you must be as unpopular as I am if it took you months to figure out nobody was calling you. That realization that months with no calls is only *a little* too long

EDIT: so it wasn't "four" months like I originally thought, it was "for" months. Now the brunt of my joke is gone. Or in other words... *whoosh* Nearly 80% of my communication on a daily basis is through Facebook messenger. I probably still text/call once every week - 2 weeks, but I probably would t notice my number changing until someone pointed out I had contacted them on a new number [deleted] You probably mean cue, not queue. No, no, I believe he wants us to form a line. 

No cutting or there'll be a tutting! [Are you born in the 80s?] (https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/originals/5a/63/26/5a63265e5aa362fba26b05606f9d42d8.jpg) That is a really shitty gif /r/shittytumblrgifs He Britta'd it She fony fon Yeah I normally use Facebook messenger for 90% of all communications, 9% being Skype, 0.9% emails and 0.1% other (including calls and texts).

When someone calls me I'm always slightly nervous as it's probably an important call.

P.S. Cool thing is that on my phone contract I have unlimited calls and texts per month. :p Mostly because the contracts that have all-you-can-eat data are already expensive, so I thought why not get the best one (plus I'm paying less as I have a 10 recurring monthly discount as I signed up on a day when they offered it). &gt;  I have a 10 recurring monthly discount

10 discount? that sounds almost like my current monthly payment for unlimited internet access. ( https://www.dna.fi/en/dna-prepaid ) My contract is 25 monthly, so with a 10 discount it's 15/month. :)

To be fair, the cheapest contract with all-you-can-eat data starts from 17, so mine with everything (calls, texts, data) unlimited and even cheaper than that, therefore not complaining at all. :)  Are you serious? 17? I pay $80(50) a month for that! I pay that and i only get 2gb of data.

Thanks, Verizon!  &gt;Thanks, ~~Verizon~~ every Canadian carrier that's not WIND Mobile!

FTFY eh Wind mobile is life I pay bloody $111 Aud (56 pound) a month for unlimted texts and calls but 1gb download! 6 months, one call from walmart, no second call from them... "for months" not "four months" At least op wasnt shadowbanned from reddit for 3 years. That guy kept commenting for the whole time.  That one was hilarious. i wouldn't even have a phone if i didn't want to buy drugs on a regular basis  

otherwise i never use it Well I use my smartphone every day but only like a couple of times in a month for actually receiving calls. Ugh. I dread voice calls. that's funny because it's probably true I feel this is something I would do as well.... I either get Email, or Skype.... Texts/calls are rare Or just uses mainly Skype/texts. Let be friends :)  all of us  Dude this is a fine ass comment. I hope you enjoy your gold! It's just my second time gilding. Well thank you very much!  It is my first time receiving.  I will enjoy it! I'm sure he called people with his phone so they just had to call him back on the new number.  Short, simple, straight to the point. Have an upvote my dear idiot. Yeah, thanks for keeping your post short, like your wits. Sorry for poking fun at you, OP. I'm a jerk.  You're a very kind Redditor. Are you new? Reddit thinks I'm 2 months old. Is that new? 

I read one of the other comments about how lonely OP must be if it took that long to wonder why no one was calling. It's like when I email myself just in case. Someone out there wants to talk to me but Gmail keeps crashing and losing my mail. Sometimes I'll text my mom, just to make sure my phone is actually working and sending/receiving texts. It is, people just aren't sending them to me to receive  "Mommy, am I alive?" Today a young man on acid realized that all matter is merely energy condensed to a slow vibration, that we are all one consciousness experiencing itself subjectively, there is no such thing as death, life is only a dream, and we are the imagination of ourselves. Heres Tom with the Weather.

-Bill Hicks It's hot. Damn hot. I like this. I like you. Have an up-vote and a friends. I think his name in Hank. Thanks man! It's not Mr. Hank(y) is it? Gave you an upvote as well friend.  You're a funny guy. Have an upvote Hah, did you check my post history? *one month later still no reply*

RIP.  he must be Canadian. *wits Yeah thanks for not writing a whole sob story about something that sounds super  fake. It was good I agree, but not [prepare your anus](http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/238gjz/tifu_after_applying_for_over_30_jobs) good Yeah but if we are going to be picky (and we are), we can point out that the FU is not so much applying for jobs, as it is to put the wrong phonenumber on the applications. Short and simple, just how it should be.

No need to write a fucking SAT essay just for /r/tifu Much better than that 10-page McDonald's ad we were subjected to. It will be worse when you start using your new number on applications - and you still don't get calls.  :( Tifu because nobody likes me That awkward moment when he needs to send his resume again to all the companies he sent it already. Skills: Attention to detail  *Mr. Kreeblix, we've already gone through your rsum.  We don't want you.  Nobody wants you.  You're a bad person, you smell like turkeys and you hang out with middle school girls way too much.*



But I have a new phone number now!



*You're hired.* If they are still hiring. :( My buddy sent out his resume with a @hotmale.com account on it. 

Its hotmail.com. Fucking idiot. No it isn't. 

You just don't know what type of jobs he was applying for.


Also, a hotmail email address would be an FU also. This was 7+ years ago. But, the biggest key is having YOUR email listed on the resume. Hotmale was instead a gay website. Whoa, slow down there, swift.  Why would hotmail be a FU and which email should you use instead? In Junior High I exchanged email's with some people in science class so we could work on stuff outside of school. Or maybe it was because we wanted to play games together.  The next day her friend said she shouldn't email me because that was a dirty website. They both thought I meant hotmale.com. Didn't help that there were rumors abound of my sexuality. I was out of work for 4 desperate months - lost my job right when a local economic downturn hit - was trying to change careers, getting older, seriously got a bit worried... 

I finally got a call (and ended up with a dream job) from a guy who was asking me to re-send my resume.  Why?  Well, turns out I'd been sending around a .doc from LibreOffice which, for whatever reason, would crash MS-Word when people tried to load it... ALWAYS send a .pdf unless requested otherwise. There are about 13,000 other file formats I would use for a CV before .doc/.docx GIF resumes FTW! HTML with embedded flash *Yes, sir, you are correct in finding my resume to be nothing more than an animated carrot merrily dancing his way into a man's anus.*


*You start Monday.  I'll have my desk cleared out by then.* I'd like to imagine a potential employer opening up a .GIF resume and having a screamer image pop up. .exe resume.pdf.exe hiremeorelse.doc.pdf.exe.plode Turns out it's really a .bat. Really? TIL i would use pdf, then doc.  it's easily the second most-requested format.  the people who are hiring me don't know IT. .bmp Well now I feel stupid.  .doc and .docx files from Word are pretty typical. I doubt anybody would ever run into a problem using them. I would never hire a person who sends his CV as .doc What file type would you use then? PDF mate come on. But why?  It's a fairly universal format at this point. It was nothing to do with being universal or not. It's about being a format used for editing. Once you are done editing you create a nice, light, read-only PDF which you distribute around. I though this was common knowledge. I guess I never thought about changing it, and the only time I have remembered someone requesting a specific format it was .doc so I just used that for it all.  

I'm also somewhat convinced some companies don't even look at the resume since they like to ask me questions that could be answered by reading it. They ask you questions about things answered in it to make sure you wrote it yourself and that the information is accurate.

I've seen resumes submitted as word docs with track changes turned on and comments from the professional writer telling the candidate what to fill in where. 

I've seen other ones where I've asked candidates about the technologies they claim to have experience in, and anything more than cursory questions are met with stunned embarrassment. 

I've seen attack ships on fire off the shoulder of orion.. wait, no That's the exact reason I was forced to purchase Microsoft Office. &gt;.&gt; This motherfucker wants a job and the first thing he does is crash my fucking computer. I hope he crashes into that subway! I'm assuming you had an email address listed as well so if they really wanted to reach you, they'd send you an email too.

But welcome to Virginia! It's a pretty sweet state for the most part. Unfortunately, he's been using the email address he had back in North Dakota as well. :/ &gt; I'm assuming you had an email address listed as well so if they really wanted to reach you, they'd send you an email too.

Damn.

 &gt; I'm assuming you had an email address listed as well so if they really wanted to reach you, they'd send you an email too.

Should we wait for a second /r/TIFU from OP? I've actually only been emailed for a possible job instead of being called once. It was with a guy my dad knew and all the work I ended up doing for him was done at home and emailed to him, only met him twice. So when potential employers call you to set up a job interview and you don't pick up they'll leave a voicemail telling you to call them back. They have plenty of candidates usually so I wouldn't expect that they would try again through email; they assume the information you gave them is correct. I doubt any job is that desperate to get in touch with one particular applicant that they'd reach out via multiple methods. They'd try calling to set up an interview, realize the number is wrong, and then move on to the next applicant. Usually they send you a quick "we got your application, we will conntact you soon" via mail. Even if he doesn't get the job, sending an rejection via mail is less trouble and is often done this is north dakota we're talking about I, too, welcome you to Virginia! Our weather is finicky at best, but is probably more pleasant in the winter than North Dakota.  I almost did the same thing. Applied for dozens of jobs, then my mom one day sent me info on another job. So I sent her my resume to fax it to them for me. She reviewed it and said that, while the resume looked nice, I had absolutely no contact info in it! I immediately called that company to let them know, the HR person pulled the resume real quick, reviewed it, set me up with an interview that day. I ended up getting that job. My mom doesn't let me live that one down... put your e-mail on resume! And maybe a LinkedIn link to your profile? And your Quickmeme username. That sucks. You burned a lot bridges already. Haha.  That reminds me when my gf didn't talk to me for two weeks even though I was calling her every day.  Often more than once a day.  And I had no idea why she wouldn't talk to me.

So I was like, well, fuck, we're done.  So I stopped calling her.  Then I went to Japan, and only told like five people because I didn't want my parents to know, and when I got back, I had a different address, phone number, and email.

Two years later I ran into her and she was like, "wtf happened to you?  I tried to call you and you wouldn't pick up, I went by your apartment and you weren't there.  Why did you pull a disappearing act?"

Apparently, she got over being mad at me after ~3 weeks. Sweet, I'm somewhere in that process right now, except I'm giving her a few days/weeks of silence to get over whatever the problem is.

The kicker is that she wanted to do a long vacation, and I'm currently between work contracts and have money and time to spare, so I can do that vacation. Except, today I will accept a new contract that will tie me down for a few years. The company is very open to the terms, so I can negotiate for things like extra vacation time. But the GF won't even be a consideration during those negotiations.

Sucks for her. But if she wants to stop talking for a while, she creates that problem for herself. Get out while you still can, dump her ass. You should have looked her in the eyes and say: "Wtf is wrong with YOU? Ignoring me for almost a month like a little kid. Ain't nobody got thyme for that, onee-chan".  Eh, I just took it as a life lesson.  I figure she did the same. Why did you take it as a lesson? Being mad and ignoring someone for 3 weeks warrants being disappeared upon. Serves her right. I learned that leaving the country and becoming a roadie for a Japanese ska band was a great way to forget about a girl.

Also some other stuff, but I try to avoid sounding like /theredpill if at all possible. Either way, your life sounds awesome!  A lot of people's lives sound awesome if they pick out the two or three cool things they did that year. I'm sure it'd sound less awesome if I described in detail how much ultimate frisbee I played that year or moodily drinking Japanese whisky while thinking about my ex and actually being that guy who talks to the bartender about his life.
 upvote for honesty So you didn't start anything with her again? Upvoted for onee-chan. :3 You won that one, dude. I got in an argument with my then-boyfriend once via text, while he was drunk. He didn't talk to me the next day, then the next. After two days of getting the cold shoulder, I had an epiphany: I'm an adult and I don't have time for people who think the cold shoulder is a legitimate tactic. So a few days later I went by his place to pick up my stuff. He didn't say a single word to me, not even in response to my, "Hey!" and "What's up?" So I just went about getting my stuff. As I went for the front door, he grabbed my arm and asked me why I was being so weird. I was more dumbfounded than I'd ever been, but I gave him 5 minutes to talk about it.  

Turns out that when he woke up the morning after the argument, he didn't bother to reread our text conversation and see that he had  misread everything, and that everything he was mad at *me* for saying was actually something *he* had said. So he laughed and apologized and thought it was all smoothed over with that revelation.  

That just further solidified that he was too immature formy expectations. Grazie per la tua storia. Una delle lezioni che ho imparato, per quanto banale,  che non comunica le relazioni uccide.  Bollire nel proprio succo solo non  salutare.

And if there's one thing taking Italian taught me, it's alt+138.

I wonder how he spun that in explaining that to his friends, "My girlfriend dumped be just because I didn't talk to her for two days.  Talk about a stage 5 clinger!" Wow.  Just... &gt; Apparently, she got over being mad at me after ~3 weeks.

Good on you for moving on. Fuck that shit. When you reactivated your phone, didn't they tell you your new number? It would seem that is true in most cases. Or are you saying you knew it but forgot and wrote your old number on the apps?  I bought the straight talk card, turned it on by calling something without service and putting the card info in and thats when i started applying for jobs. No where in the process was I informed of a new number. I really dearly feel your pain OP. I once applied to 4 jobs with my old number 3 days after I got a new phone. I spent hours writing and signing shit. 

Sad part is they thought I was lying about my number to "scam" them or something after I finally realized my mistake and contacted them. It was just IT positions and such.   I had this happen to me once, but not because I changed place or anything. Just fucking dumb thats all. You're definitely Virginia material. I did almost the exact same thing!! Lucky for me a potential employer liked my resume so much he tracked me down through job seeking websites. Still can't believe it! Where were you from in North Dakota? Mostly Devils lake but I lived in minot and bismark/mandan and fort totten Oh nice, I've lived in Minot for 18 years now, the soul sucking city of the world. You must be with the Minot Tourism Board. [deleted] I wouldve been excited if that was actually my phone number.

or creeped out. What was deleted here? A phone number How about TIFU by leaving ND.  The state of many job opportunities. Get Google Voice dude. Nobody knows what phone number my cell carrier actually assigned me. Jesus Christ. You poor sorry batard.... :( I love you and I'm sorry. Think how much money you saved them all by eliminating yourself with this simple test.

You should send each of them an invoice. "Recruitment services provided regarding the suitability of Summonknight $250" Thats ok OP, I applied internally for a kick ass job. I got everything ready updated my resume, had my supervisors backing me up, had done mock interviews with them, everything. Well the night before my toner was out of ink. No biggie, I just uploaded to google drive and then went to work the next day. My interview was one of the first things. Printed off my resume and ran up the stairs. Sit down pass out my resume just chatting with them, then the Director stops me politely. Apparently, when I had uploaded it, I had either forgotten to save some of my changes or something got messed up. All of my dates were messed up. I had holes in my resume years long and overlap between jobs that I was no longer working. So like you nothing crazy that would make me unwanted but obviously I didnt get the job. Made sure not to make the same mistake though! Virginia, eh? Have you been checking out usajobs.gov?  If not, check it out. A ton of government jobs if you're around the NoVA area or want to commute to DC/Arlington. Why would you leave a place where Wal Mart pays $17 an hour to look for jobs in Virginia?! I've never lived anywhere with so much opportunity/high paying jobs.  Cost of living is high as shit. I am paying 2100 for a 2 bedroom apartment but thankfully my lease is almost up and there are nice places for 1300 now. THe prices have dropped significantly but still high, that and everyone is looking for a job now since oil laid off 50%
 Ho-le-sheet.

And here I thought my broke ass trying to make it by in a $950 2 bedroom apartment was hard. Best of luck to you friend.  [Maybe he's on the trail of the lonesome pine?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qkgyvNi0Fyw)

 I "accidentally" destroyed my phone once and no one could call me for two weeks. I got a new iPhone and immediately hated that little fucker. It made a humming noise and after that I had to talk to people. Fuck that. I recently did this with my home phone on my resume instead of cell phone. So the entire second semester my crazy dad was yelling and hanging up on potential employers. How depressed were you during that time? Welcome to VA, turtle friend. Well hopefully you slide into your next job like a phallus into a well-prepared anus then :) Every job hunter on Reddit just went and doublechecked their resumes. Hope they got proofreader's to. I also wonder why I even try anymore. 2 calls in 4 years, no call backs.  Realized 2 years into it that my phone wasn't working for most callers. Got it replaced, but not much has changed, just a failed interview recently. It's just how it is. I'm planning here and there and learning how to live homeless for the future since killing myself is too scary and would make people sad. See ya in a few years, cali. Easy solution: CALL THEM BACK. Tell them your phone # changed with the move to Virginia, etc. Better yet - go in and tell them. 

A person in front of them is worth 1,000 e-mails, calls, &amp; letters. Yea I one upped you by not including a phone number at all. I am not a smart man. We had to make a cv for school. Had to hand it in to be marked, me being a paranoid 15 year old added 1 to every other number in it. Then when I left school a few months later, I handed out that cv without checking it. I didn't get any phone calls either. Email the HR and management departments of all the companies informing them of the mishap. Most of them will be able to find your application. If you were given an application processing email when you finished the application with any identifying information, put that in the email as well.  It's not your fault. Virginia is always acting the mickey.  Did you not include your e-mail on your application? Because contacting applicants by e-mail is more standard these days, at least where I live... Forsaken by the 701. Lets be serious here. North Dakota does not exist. Aw Jeeeeeez, plz tell me u lived in Fargo Every job I ever got was because I called back and bugged them at least once. I've worked at wireless companies for all my adult life, and i have never seen a re-activation (from a suspension or disconnection) completed with a new number unless you were over the carriers 30-60-90 day rules. 
Were you?  Hi. Fellow newbie to VA here.  Our biggest TIFU was moving from relatively free states to the biggest police state in the country. 
 Gee, buddy. Sounds like you're in a bit of a pickle. No, he's in a REAL pickle. Why he's spending time on reddit instead of eating his way out of it is beyond me, though...   Lol How did you find out?  Called your mom and she asked why the number changed? At least you're out of North Dakota. Hey mister, I like it here. I'd take North Dakota over Virginia any day. ouch. upvoted for boneheadedness and a great underrated video game as a user name How did this make the front page. This is just stupid. &gt; This is just stupid.

You've answered your own question.

 That sucks man. You could try emailing/ calling them, explaining the situation. At worst they'll say no or its too late. At best they'll understand and offer you an interview.  Don't do this. 

As of now you were just unreachable, if you go in and tell them why they'll think you're scatterbrained and won't be calling you anyway. 

Just go back in a few weeks, say you need to update the number on the apps you submitted. You don't look dumb, and you have a reason to go back in and get some face time.  Legit way to look like you're interested and responsible and care enough about hearing back from them.  no one has to know you're secretly a flake Oh snap. Thanks man. I guess there is a reason why naive 19 year olds shouldn't give advise. But year that sounds a lot sounder.  Do you have your email account on your resume?  If not, I suggest doing so. I'm sorry to hear that. I'll keep my fingers crossed for you and hope you find a job soon. I just moved to North Dakota!  If you're anywhere near the Fargo area and have any questions I can definitely help you out.  enjoy the vast nothing and racist native americans They are the only ones that actually kinda can be racist. Reminds me of the guy who wondered why he didn't get any feedback on his applications only to find out that his profile pic on his online applications was a 'prepare your anus' picture  I thought this was going to end with a typo.. "I'm from Vagina"

To which every HR Dept. you applied to would be like no shit and throw the CV away.

Why did this have to end with the wrong number!! TUFU by being retarded and not realizing you had a new phone number... OP's reaction

_ ()_/ PROTIP Time. 

1st) Get yourself a professional looking email address using Gmail.  example FirstMiddleLastname@gmail.com 

2nd) Google Voice &lt; assign a google voice number to this account. Use a local area code. This is a good thing if you're applying for jobs in cities you don't live in yet. 

3rd) Only give out this number when you're applying for a job, or something professional. DO NOT USE with any sort of internet sign up forms or anything like that.  _ This limits your online exposure with that email address and phone number.  First thing I ever did when considering a new person was google them (full name, email address and phone number)    You'd be quite surprised what information you can obtain about someone that is on the internet open for anyone. Correction: You fucked up by not updating your phone number, not by applying to jobs. That is definitely special.  How did you finally figure it out? Call your old number and ask if they have been getting random callbacks from hr. No, you fucked up by not checking your phone number. Why the misleading headline?  Wow this is a true TIFU. You really screwed the pooch on this one...  _really_. How do you even go through the whole phone activation process without comprehending the fact that you have a new number? That is a special breed of stupid. Man that sucks. receive no calls for months and still not realize something is up lol You may be able to set up a referral recording if you contact your phone carrier. they can give the number or for a fee they can sometimes forward the calls.  Exact same thing happened to me except I missed a digit in my phone number and a recruiter had pointed it out to me. Ugh I thought this was going to be a repost of the top post in this sub. I applied for a IT job at the college I'm studying at. 2 weeks with no followup later I decide to try to send a followup email. Turns out I wasn't supposed to reply directly to the guy that sent the job notice out, but to a secondary email he put in his email. So basically I was too stupid to follow directions properly and he probably trashed my resume. I've done something similar recently. Apparently my dyslexia kicked in while I was making my resume, and the phone number I put on there was wrong. Instead of xxx-xxx-8366, I had written down xxx-xxx-8633. It explains why I didn't get any phone calls back :( Oh, bless your heart. If you live near the NC border, PM me and I'll see about helping you out in your job search. I can't hire you, but if we're in the same field or I know someone that works in yours, I can probably give you several leads. I once had a brain fart and applied for heaps of jobs right before a 4 day hike, figuring "cool, I'll get some responses and can go from there when I'm back" without mentioning me being unavailable for 4 days and not thinking that they might call me... Got back to an exploding voice-mail  Which part of Virginia. Don't they email you? What's your field? If the answer is "telecoms" then I'm gonna die laughing!
 You can call them up.  What have you got to lose? Had a similar mishap a few weeks past:

I graduated last year and had been using my schools resume builder software. As it turns out though, the school cancels student accounts about 9-12 months after graduation, so I lost acess to all my resume templates

Fortunately my girlfriend is still a student and so I decided to just hijack her account and create a new resume using her template. I replaced her name, address, work history, etc with mine own and made a new resume. I  then proceded to send in with about a dozen applications which took the better part of a Saturday.

A few weeks later she and I were fooling around in bed when she got a call from a number she didnt recognize. She picked up whilest I (being a deviant) kissed her neck and loudly pronounced that iwanted her to hang up so that I may "pound that wet pussy". 

Her face turned red and she gave me a look like I had just proposed butt stuff then promptly extended her phone to me and told me it was the hiring manager for one of the positions I had applied for. 

Needless to say, I had forgotten to change the resume phone number to my own. Oops.

Tldr: Used my gfs resume template, forgot to change phone number to mine, hiring manager called her while we were preporking. Rest In Peas. F A R T S We did it Reddit! About time we did something. 

Edit: ;( Other than doing your mother Im honestly surprised we found time to do anything else.  rekt Hey!  That was one of our crowning moments, excuse me. You are honestly a true mother fucker!


;) We found the Boston bomber!!! We messed it up A R E D I upvoted all of you... Except one guy. You know who you are. Pea Genius. Confirmed. OP is not a princess. :( You can be a queen, but you'll have to learn to walk in heels So chloce though. Could be worse: you could have pod the bed instead.

Edit: Thanks for making this pea gold! I must be dehydrated. god fucking damn  I shit you not, that was amusing. I don't get it. Is it a pea pod joke?  "Pod" is hilariously close to "pooed"  Came here to make fun of the title, actual peas :( I'm thinking many peaple will Oh don't be such a greenie Are you getting pea O'd? This line of inquiry is peatering out. You guys just need to make peas with OP Guys peas stop, I think this has gone on long enough OPea tricked us Oh come on guys, everyone knows this joke has been rePEAted a million times! Pod dammit!  All we are saying is give peas a chance. Yeah, this pun thread is on its last leg-umes.  You're just bean mean. Oh for Peat's sake.  Let it go, guys.  Something something Frozen peas. Peasus christ everybody, chill. I should learn how to play the peano Can confirm, had lots of pea punnery ready for karma. Bit of a peasimistic thought New meme: bad luck grammar nazi.  OPea made a great pun out of the title.  OPlease I'm picturing a boardroom full of Unidan, Vargas and the voidspace guy all brainstorming new ways to shoehorn puns into believable posts and memes **OMG I HAVE FOUND THE ANSWER NOW:**

 **UNIDAN VARGAS AND VOIDGUY-&gt;3 PEOPLE-&gt;TRIANGLE-&gt;ILLUMINATI-&gt;9/11-&gt;INSIDE JOB-&gt;JET FUEL-&gt;STEEL MEMES-&gt;KEKS ASSURED-&gt;TOP PUNS** So did I man, so did I I came here expecting a bad pun. Was not disappointed. 

 When Life Hands you lemons, make ice peas  Guilty of the same act... Not the peas, making fun of the title. Lol you can still do it  
ha ha op [peaed](http://www.villageplayhouse.org/HistoryPages/Childrens%20Shows/Princess%20and%20the%20Pea/PrincessPeaFlyerFINAL-copy.gif)the bed That makes it that much funnier I came hoping the title wasn't wrong, not disappointed  Pealease! Not this shit again. Same here I did too, but you have successfully gathered a ton of comment karma I was totally not even expecting 100 upvotes, when I saw the number growing I got really overwhelmed. In 8 hours, I've gathered approximately 2 times the karma I had in 1 year of redditing xD You spotted that with a bird's eye. Peasus Christ...  What's the difference between a lentil and a chickpea?



I never paid 100 $ to have a lentil on me. What's the difference between roast beef and pea soup?

Anyone can roast beef... Oh I finally get the joke now! I can't believe how obvious it is. I don't. :( "anyone can roast beef" implies that not everyone can "pea" (pronounced like pee) soup. Have I been pronouncing pea incorrectly my entire life? If the answer is yes, I am interested in finding out how you pronounced it. "Throatwobbler mangrove" This is not correct?  "Greeneedly tweeble-weeble" Pehah Does everyone around you pronounce it like that? Its kinda fascinating really. He was being funny because he thought it was unnecessary that the previous poster wrote "pronounced like pee" as if there were any other way to have been saying pea this whole time. I'm amused by the notion that you have, so I choose to believe yes. Can you pee soup? Ha! What's the difference between jelly and jam? Nobody's jellying their dick up your ass. You've obviously never heard of KY. I can't believe how long it took me to get that joke. (How I've been told, and tell the joke, people get it instantly this way) 


What's the difference between a garbanzo bean and a chick pea?
I've never paid a garbanzo $100 to bean on my face.

Fun bonus fact, there's no difference between a chickpea and a garbanzo bean, same plant, and actually makes the joke funny, instead of saying what's the difference between a chickpea and a random fruit/vegetable. I thought it was going to have something to do with paying 100 $ to have Allen tell on him. Eww.  I used frozen peas after my vasectomy,  double zip lock bagged them and could still smell peas when they started to thaw. Time to burn your mattress. It sounds like you had a peasful sleep until you woke up.... Touche OP touche. We all see what you did there. The grammar police have left the building.  The spelling police are all here though.  Am I the only one who actually expected peas? Turns out the author is making a pun and is not an illiterate idiot... have an upvote. Typos are possible ya know. Only the stupid maek tipos.  The Princess /u/chloce and the Peas.

Someone should write a children's fable about this.
 This is what I like to call the fabled grammar nazi trap.  A grammar Nazi honeypot? Have you tried a *pea*diatric mattress? I hope he didn't wake up with morning wood. Then he might be a ... *pea*dophile OH MY GAWD, WITH THE ASSIST! DID YOU SEE THAT GAME CHANGER DONALD??!! yessss. Yisssssss

FTFY Or an ortho*pea*dic one. I woke to melted pea juice once and was so disgusted I vomitted. I despise peas. I thought there should be a product that has pea-sized balls that you can freeze instead of having to use real peas. That was about 10 years ago. Just last month I found that exact product that I had in mind years ago now on the shelves at CVS pharm.  You just typed out all of that, yet you couldn't be bothered to type out the word pharmacy.  I was going to suggest something happened to them mid-word, but then I noticed the full stop. That's... They stopped four letters short. Why they do this? They could have used Rx, and that's actually a valid abbreviation, in fewer letters. ITT: Many Pea-puns Only thing in my inbox I sent you pics of my *pea*ness. I pea what you did there. I'm a disappointed Grammar Nazi. Were they [Rosebud brand frozen peas](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IH1PJTY9AVA)? Your bed is full of pea-ness. I expected peas.  Was not disappointed. Drat, I'm a grammar Nazi and I thought I'd hit gold. [deleted] I'm a lucky gal! OPea Made no mistakes That's the last time you'll give peas a chance Reminds me of this [Princess.](http://cdn3.thecreativefinder.com/userfiles/members/karenwatson/8046/optimized-maxW950-03_PrincessAndThePea.jpg) I always saw that story as the princess who could pee through a hundred mattresses.. I can't say how happy I am that the pun turned out to be literal. Sorry about the bed though OP. Good one OPEA Dont worry OP, the mattress can now Rest In Peas... fwiw a mattress cover is the best thing anyone could buy for their bed. All the sweat, sex juices, spilled stuff, pea juice, pet dander just soaks down into your mattress unless you get a waterproof protector. wow, that is wierd weird*

I'm only correcting you because I wrote 'wierd' instead of 'weird' until  was about 15, and couldn't believe that nobody had pointed it out to me. I before E except after C or Y or something like that... Fuck English and all its exceptions.  [beige, cleidoic, codeine, conscience, deify, deity, deign,
dreidel, eider, eight, either, feign, feint, feisty,
foreign, forfeit, freight, gleization, gneiss, greige,
greisen, heifer, heigh-ho, height, heinous, heir, heist,
leitmotiv, neigh, neighbor, neither, peignoir, prescient,
rein, science, seiche, seidel, seine, seismic, seize, sheik,
society, sovereign, surfeit, teiid, veil, vein, weight,
weir, weird](http://alt-usage-english.org/I_before_E.html)

The list could be a lot longer...

&gt;This list could obviously be extended by adding more derivatives of Latin "scire", and by adding inflected forms of some of the basic words listed. The list has "conscience", "prescient", and "science", but there are also, for example, "omniscient" and "nescient". To "eight" could be added "eighty", "eighteen", and "eighth". And the list could be greatly extended by adding the plurals of all words ending in "cy".

 "I before E except after C 

And when sounding like ay as in neighbor and weigh,

And on weekends and holidays and all throughout May,

And you'll always be wrong *no matter* **what** *you say*"
 I before E except after C, unless it has anything to do with measurement (weight, height) or a handful of other things.

Our language makes very little sense... There's an exception to every rule.

Except ^ that rule.  @};- i love you, thank you you'll NEVER regret it baby, i promise@};-:-*:x I've actually done the exact same thing before, except for a broken air conditioner during a very hot night. You have no idea how insanely jealous I am that you thought of this pun and I didn't.

FUCK YOU FOR BEING CLEVER. :'( Well you aren't a princess because you slept. the peas knees Somehow I knew it had to do with peas. came looking. OP, you beautiful bastard. The set-up, the hook, the rug-pull... Artful.  [deleted] came to correct spelling...well played  I was going to comment how difficult it is to misspell peeing. So i decided to read the post because i was sure no one is that dumb. Im glad i wasnt wrong lol. Haha, my nanna used to always make that joke. 

Spill some peas at dinner? "Oh, why did you pea all over the table?!" false typo alarm

Also, you'd have taken a pic Reminds me of [this scene in Bridesmaids](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=llnKogJtpT4). Well that made my entire week. Well done. Wow, I was expecting something else. Great pun though. I have bean there legume give you a tip. The pun lmao  Leave me alone!  Haha nice one! Good you didn't grab the other frozen veggies or it might have been a very corny joke ;) I saw this coming. Just didn't realize how well it would be executed. Well done.  This is weak sauce.  My brother fell asleep and woke up with a warm block of cheese under him.  He was drunk and eating the block of cheese in bed. I knew what you meant by the title! 

Funny story, when I met my wife and started dating, my first introduction to her family was her grandmother's 90th birthday party.  We had a big meal of polish food and it included peas.

To break the ice, I went to the joke I had grown up with and knocked a pea off my plate and onto the table. I turned to my then-girlfriend and said " I just pead on the table." She turned white as a ghost having never heard that joke before. The rest of the family, her parents, brother, his wife, and dear old grandma, stopped in silence. I then pointed to the pea and repeated myself. Followed with "Get it?" 

She shook her head in embarrassment until the golden moment when Grammy started laughing... and laughing...

I can't believe NONE of them had heard that before! this guy knows english or n... oh. LOL TYP- *nevermind...* You are clearly not a princess Rest in peas mate I feel proud that I assumed it had to do with peas and not urine.  Was expecting vasectomy story, was pleasantly surprised.  Watch your peas and queues. Give peas a chance. I once used a bag of frozen berries to ice my shoulder/neck. Somehow, it ended with my floor stained red and my roommate thinking I was dead.  Mmmm...  I can just taste the delicious pea-ness. Mattress protector. Every mattress. Every time. I was hoping that the title actually had something to do with peas and that it wasn't a misspelling!  

I am not disappointed.   Rip in peas I won't make a peap...
 I giggled. Thanks :) Hope your back and neck feel better soon. Ho ho ho green giant  I pea-ty you OP. You deserve pea-ce, but you got ap-pea-sed by your own pea-ss. Came here hoping for a pun. Was not disappointed. Good job O'Pea. Give peas a chance! Came to hear about actual peas. Not disappointed that was a good title OPea Came expecting jokes about spelling pee wrong. Was not disappointed. Was not sure how you can pea a bed now I know
 Short and sweet TIFU, I like it Did that when I busted a knee... but I used pearl onions ._. Seriously I have done the same thing but my outcome was that I was awoken by my cat licking and eating peas that were stuck to my arms. It was disgusting  Lmao this is a tifu.  This happened to me after I had surgery, except it was a frozen bag of blackberries and I woke up thinking I was going to die from blood loss! Going through these comments is destroying my brain, but for some reason I cant stop... Its Peaposterous. You dumb ass peeing is... awww A TIFU that I actually believe happened and isn't absurdly overly complicated, I could get used to this. My grandmother who recently passed did this a couple of times. Just one of those silly memories of her. I literally thought about doing this with a bag of corn for my bruised arm, but decided "something bad might happen". This is what would happen  Haha, yes! It was a pea joke as I had hoped! My cynical brain came here wanting to correct a typo but was tricked into appreciating a pun. at first I thought you were stupid and didn't know how to spell peeing. This is *exactly* what I hoped it to be. Laughing at this loudly nearly got me thrown out of my daughter's graduation ceremony. Have an upvote!!! When you bought your mattress, and you declined to purchase a [mattress protector](http://www.mattressnerd.com/reasons-you-need-a-mattress-protector/), did you tell the salesman that you don't "pee the bed?" The salesman should've retorted "no, but you might pea it."  Reminds me of something /u/Dad_Jokes_Inbound would say! TIFU by going to the TIFU sub in hopes of being a grammar nazi. if some of the pea juice leaked into your ear. it only adds up to you being a pea-brain. OPea! :p Mmmm. Make soup.  Awesome story O Pea Visualize whirled peas You must have been peaved. You must have been very peaved off. One could say you *Pisum* yourself Guess they had to go pod-dy Went to bed with war and hatred on the nightly news, woke up to whirled peas. Can't complain. hahahahahahah

it might suck for you but it's funny as shit to the rest of us I though he misspelled peeing jumping to conclusions
 Well played sir, well played. Well as they used to say...
You're covered in peas. Upvote, not for the tifu, but for the pun you made there.  Oh peas, you weren't fooling me! F AHHHHH THE PEAS!!! IT BURNS!!!! TL;DR: Got shitfaced, threw up. The most common /r/tifu. Next to gambling on a fart and losing. This sub needs a "it has been ___ days since someone shit their pants" counter.  And an "it has been __ days since someone streamed their porn over Bluetooth speakers" counter.  We used to have a counter that said that. But it never went past two days, so it got removed. Ha, case in point. I guess someone beat me to it. "it has been ___ days since someone shit their face" 

FIFY Call it "The Brown Button" and let users update it.
 Isn't there a designated day for Shit my pants TIFUs? Mine is 0  Dear Charmin,

Instruction unclear.  Shit in my nose.  Dick caught in blender. No. That's not the tldr. Why does this sub always lie? :( Dont mind me So...is your username legit? is yours? Well he's not a good speller spellre* I'm good at maths. &gt;maths

Every time I see that I'm not sure if the user is from the UK or is just being silly. U wot m8? To be fair, the full word is mathematics. Maths would be the most logical abbreviation to me.  Not trying to be rude, but *how?* Like really, please explain how. Because mathematics is singular so the "s" doesn't imply plurality and thus the shortened version would be singular and wouldn't have the "s" as that would make it plural. Do you talk in maths? Do you buzz like a fridge? Are you like a de- tuned radio? Should we arrest you? You got me singing that out loud now. Kudos. So he's /u/jstrydor's alt account?  :/ Hey man, on the bright side you ***are*** famous now. It's a dream come true!

Shit, you would've been a perfect post for the who is famous in a particular community post a couple days ago. WHY DIDN'T I THINK OF THAT.
 Hey, aren't you the guy that misspelled his name? Fore yeers ago I cudn't even spel enginere. Now IR1! Maybe. It is, he's gilded like 20 people in the last 27 days. Paid for a few days* of Reddit server time. Hahahaha that's hilarious. Thanks! :) &gt; /u/I_gild_randomly has helped pay for 93.24 hours of reddit server time.

Holy shit, dude! You're like the hero something something reddit something. That's exactly how much I've paid for.

Am I a hero now too? Considering that means you've paid for 2 full years of Gold (and you're 4 months old), yes it does! &gt;exactly how much I've paid for

You better gild another comment real quick to get ahead of him! And it better be this one!
^^^^as ^^^^in ^^^^mine, ^^^^not ^^^^yours THE hero. On a scale of big hero and medium hero, you're somewhere in-between pft. amateur. &gt; /u/Im-Probably-Lying has helped pay for 16.45 days of reddit server time.

Haha, Jesus. Nice! How many tiers does that trophy even have? That's literally what happened  [boom, boom.., kish](http://i.imgur.com/IDhICQ8.gif) I feel like this is the kind of situation people are referring to when they say "well, it could be worse". Well there was that one TIFU a while back from that guy who slipped and fell while shaving his balls, knocked himself unconscious, fell through the glass shower door, and was (if I remember correctly) rescued by his wife, his parents, and the next door neighbor before being taken to the hospital with ball hair stuck all over his bloody wounds.

But on the other hand, no poop on his nose. Does anyone have the link to this one? I spent a few minutes googling for it but only found a bunch of stories about how none of y'all fuckers know how to use bathrooms correctly. Apparently. Can confirm, don't know how to bathroom. Well you are reckless. And bacon. Then there was the one where a guy slipped while shaving his balls and slit the skin between the shaft and the scrotum, like the webbed membrane under your tongue. Nope. Didn't happen. Nope. But, the most important question:

Do you stand up or keep on sitting down while you wipe? A combo! First two wipes, sitting. The rest, standing.  That is unexpected.

You should pick side tho, team standing ftw When it comes to ass wiping, I'm a lone wolf. When your wife finds out about this shitty situation, ass wiping won't be the only thing your a lone wolf at.

 *If Can't let wife find out; posts on reddit from non-throwaway. Ballsy. She doesn't know my username, so later I'll show her this post and we'll laugh together at this idiot with shit on his nose.  So long as you don't let her read through the comments. I hope she's not as dumb as you're implying. I mean, I think I'd be able to tell if my husband had a shitsplosion/vomit comet accident in the bathroom. On the contrary. She's just to well behaved to let me know she understands.  Yeah but your story pretty much matches up to exactly what you did during your 30 minutes in the bathroom of groaning and banging. To be fair, I'm sure a lot of wives are used to their husbands spending 30 minutes in the bathroom groaning and banging. I like how the first instinct is to cover it up, so no one ever finds out. Then once the cringe wears off, it's time to tell people.  [It's not shit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G5NYCvVs6vk) If is good. :3 That's probably a good thing, to be honest I don't think anyone will be calling you sensei any time soon for ass wiping Standers are just doing it that way because that's how their mothers used to do it for them when they couldn't handle it themselves. A grown man sits when he wipes. I honestly had no idea that there are some grown adults who stand to wipe their ass. You have to give the shit a chance to smear between your cheeks. Everyone knows that.  &gt;team standing 

You disgusting heathen. Sitters unite! I've never even thought that there might be people deranged enough to stand up for the purpose of wiping. If I *have* to stand up (because my wife didn't replace the TP stash when she finished the last roll) I have to walk to the closet with my legs spread wide apart in order to keep my cheeks spread. Standing just smashes your cheeks together. Weirdos. I dont know why people call it standing up to wipe. I am a "stander" but its not standing. You don't stand straight up, you just lean forward onto your feet, instead of leaning to one side on your cheek. If everyone who "stands" just starting saying they "Lean forward" all this BS would stop.

/rant Wait a minute, I'm a stander then? Cuz i do exactly what you just described and i've always considered myself a sitter. Who the fuck comes in from the side? I see there is further fracturing in the wiping camps. I stand up almost fully. Still fucking weird.  OK, have fun with your hand in the toilet, you monster. So it's more of a hover? I lean forward, but I don't lean so far forward that there is any weight on my feet. I dont get it, how do you get your hand between the toilet and your butt? How does sit wiping work? While sitting down in a chair grab your wallet out of your back pocket. It's pretty much the same thing.  A sit wiper *and* you keep your wallet in the back pocket instead of the front? I didn't see you there, Satan. Yeah, fucking savages I'd be too afraid that my hand would dip into shit creek. My sitting skills are sub par, team standing ftw. Squatting master race reporting in. You all disgusting unhealthy savages. How's life in that third world country, you pedestrian? Bonus points if you wipe with rocks. We found a divergent!  I don't get how people fit their hand in there--- there's more than likely such little room to maneuver, and I'm sure as hell not letting my hand touch the toilet seat if I can help it. wait.. people do that?? what??? how?? why???? Team Standing prevails. /r/Unexpected A fellow double wiper! So rare, sitting and standing provides both benefits and no downsides. Ahhh, the ol' hybrid technique...never heard of it I started doing this just the other day, and I am really liking my new system.  Don't let anyone sway you. I'm in between, 1 foot on the ground while my other foot if on the toilet seat That's called the "Captain Morgan". I learned that here. On the fucking toilet seat? Dude Standing is an option??? wait.... how do you even wipe while sitting??? Lean away from your dominant hand and shove toilet paper towards bum  Like a normal person.  link to this reference please http://www.acepoll.com/polls/1173903-alright-reddit-stand-or-sit-when-you-wipe-your-shit
 TIL a lot of people wipe standing up, which I had no idea anyone did... like at all My question is, how the hell do you wipe sitting down? There's no maneuvering room.   oh theres plenty. I'm right handed, so I just lean to the left, wipe and drop.  Standing to wipe seems a little... cheeky  But..I mean....[okay](http://gifsec.com/wp-content/uploads/GIF/2014/09/Okay-GIF.gif)..  you put your hand behind you...you dont sit with your back pressed against the water reserve Nah man, there was this one tifu where a guy was in the military, there was a line waiting for him to finish his thing in a public bathroom or something, he then proceeds to stand up and wipe leaving everyone in a wtf state http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/2fflc8/tifu_by_standing_to_wipe_nsfw/ People wipe standing up?  That just closes things up and makes it harder to reach all the areas.  Does the person that does your laundry complain about skid marks? I thought the sneeze was going to projectile remaining poo all over the toilet. I bet you're wishing that would have been the case.  I was thinking the same thing but projectile poop all over his hand as he was going to wipe. [Relevant](https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_detailpage&amp;v=j--KOLPD_lU#t=33) Reflexes, fuck you.

Sitting on toilet and reading this. OP, you're making me laugh so hard I'm farting. Both, loudly.  My kids can hear me and they're like WTH are you doing in there?  Thanks, OP. I started giggling in the middle of Spanish class. Jajajajaja Oh hey I just did the exact same thing in spanish class. Omg me too! Butt buddies forever &lt;3 ! Butties (    )
 Ironically, I'm in the kitchen reading this-laughing hysterically-and boyfriends calls from the bathroom "Are you okay?!?!"

Laughing even harder now! Also laughing on the toilet here. It's like I can't sit on the toilet and git 'er done without redditing on my phone at the same time.  1st world problems... Hey buddy, don't worry. You're not alone. The first thing I did this morning was fart by my mom as a joke. I shit my pants a little. Don't trust a fart after a night of drinking. I don't think I'd ever trust farting on mom as a joke that would end well. I farted *by* my mom. Necessary distinction. &gt; I *sharted by* my mom. Necessary distinction.

FTFY Oh nose!

Edit: can't believe I misspelled my attempt at misspelling *nose &gt;can't believe I misspelled my attempt at misspelling

TIFU By Failing at life. Hail Shitler. [I've seen this story before](http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/2pqy35/tifu_by_sneezing_on_the_toilet/) WOW!! That's hilarious. We should start a Self-Dirty-Sanchez club. I actually checked because at first I thought this must be a repost, that surely such a disgusting event is so rare, that it could only ever happen once.  Unfortunately for me, the universe wished differently.  It would be amazing if the other OP was secretly your wife and you were both hiding the same horrifying story from each other. And that, folks, is true love. It's like "Escape (The Pina Colada Song)" all over again.

But with turd on your face. "If you like Brown Empanadas..." "And smashing doors with your brain..." Wear your club jackets with PRIDE. The monthly meetings will be fun. And I can't wait to read the club by-laws. Is your name Sanchez, by any chance? Not yet. OP; Thank you so much for this. You've made my day Man, you must've had a crappy day... You're welcome. I think you're the one who had a crappy day Honestly thought you were gonna sneeze and accidentally jam your finger in your ass, this is way better My wife must never know!

But *everyone else* must! Try getting the shit smell out of your nose before making the post next time...we aren't in a rush, we are redditors! No man, its important that TIFU's actually happened today. I'm serious. That hyperbole At least you didn't ejaculate. *fawlty towers... Aah,the ol' 'Gave yourself a dirty sanchez when you had a leaky nose and fell flat on the floor while your wife walked in' story. That's pretty shitty bro just... stop I've had a cold since Monday and I'm sneezing/pooping and reading your post. You'll be happy to know that I blew my nose and then wiped. Thank you kind stranger.  You actually puked because of poop? Bless.

Upvote for the Faulty Towers reference, my friend. I came expecting something epic, worthy of Monty Python and the (original) Beavis &amp; Butthead episodes all at once, possibly Ren &amp; Stimpy.

I was not disappointed. Carry on, sweet beauty. Carry on. I am glad that you are entertained! &gt;Now, I'm standing up, screaming out my disgust, with pants around my ankles, shit on my face and puke all over.

Better post on /r/TIFU first... If my husband told me this happened to him, I would have laughed hysterically which is likely what you're afraid of, but then, I would love him all the more.  "I still smell the shit in my nose."

That stinks. I had a hard time finishing the story because I couldn't stop laughing. 

10/10 would read again I don't believe this one bit. Why did you marry someone that you can't even tell something stupid like this to? You gotta make an excuse to your own wife? lol kinda weird to be honest. Could be worried she'd find it too funny and tell people.

That would be quite the smear campaign. I...just can't... The shit posts  Upvote for Faulty Towers. Um, yeah. It's only 9:30am but I can tell that this will be the grossest thing I read this morning. Bravo, good sir. Wash your lips a few more times before kissing your wife. Here's the silver lining: at least this happened at home, in the same room as a shower. Strip, scrub, deal, clean, scrub, and carry on your merry way.  

Now imagine this going down in a stall at work.

Feeling better? This is what a TIFU really is. If you end up dying today as well then I believe it will make you a TIFU legend. They can go ahead and shut down/r/tifu. This is probably the most monumental submission ever.  Well, at least it happened at home and not, say, in a McDonald's.  Or at the office. Congrats, this story was talked about on my local morning show - Dave and Chuck the Freak! Oh god, I knew what was going to happen just from reading the title. That's a scene from Dumb and Dumber... no, wait... Meh, it's only poop, man, no need to freak out about it since it wipes off.  Use some Vinegar to clean your lip and you won't smell it anymore. First thought was op fingering himself. That's my fetish. What an asswipe This hits way too close to home. Sometimes you just have to army crawl into the bathtub and shower for 12 hours, no time to undress.  Today is TIFU-sh!t day Not that's what i call a shitty situation Someone please give this man gold, legend. What a great way to start a friday You have me rolling over at work bro! thanks for the laugh.   Title should read, "TIFU by giving my self a dirty sanchez." I'm at work maaaaan... I can't be laughing LOUDLY.  Currently pooping and have a cold. This was too relevant not to read  No TIFU post has ever had me in tears as fast a this one did. Thanks for sharing. Just laughed so hard I peed a little This is a much worse tifu than I anticipated. You have my condolences... Maybe putting Vicks on your nose will help a little? You gave yourself a Dirty Sanchez. I *rarely* laugh at a TIFU. I chuckle, sure. Maybe a few giggles. But this? This made me hyperventilate-laugh. 

...and then I had to lie to my manager about what's so funny. After I read the second paragraph I thought I figured out what was gonna happen.
I did not TL;DR: TIFU, TIFU, TIFU, TIFU It's perplexing how bathroom mishaps like this could possibly happen to a normal adult without any mental deficiencies. Snot, vomit, and shit. Excellent 10/10 At least you weren't at work, then you would have truly fucked up today.  One time I was really hungover and sitting on the toilet. Just finished up peeing when I sneezed. The door was slightly cracked and my boyfriend was in the other room near by, watching TV. Well I guess the pressure from the sneeze caused me to "push" and an All-At-Once fart blasted out of me. It was probably the world's shortest fart lasting, lasting all of 0.002 seconds. My bf just starts laughing his ass off in the next room because he's just heard me blast off in the bathroom. Hilarious but still a tad embarrassing.  ROFL Nooooooo At least it was at home and not in a public place. You should have checked your prostate for polyps while you were there. Was definitely expecting you to have sneezed while wiping, thus sending shit all over your hand.... This was much better. Thanks for exceeding my expectations OP sorry, but i was laughing soo much.. this is one of the best chain of things in this subreddit! i feel sorry for you mate, but this is just too hilarious! X) I am in love with your fuck up. The Aristocrats. I swear TIFU's get more unbelievable everyday.  This was the best TIFU that I've ever read. Congratulations! &gt;Wife comes banging on the door

I thought you were at work until I read that. So it's not SO bad. I'm really sick and I'm still laughing about this right now. Everything hurts. Fake story is fake. /r/ThatNeverHappened &gt;As everyone who is screaming gibberish while beeing covered in poop, they presumed to be crazed and their attempts to come in were fended off with a broom. 

Gold. It was a "shit and run", if you will. 

 [you mean like this but with more depth to the execution](http://imgur.com/gallery/Y1PGIlo) Chocolate rain... Some stay dry and others feel the pain /r/shitpost  Username checks out. "a diffuse feeling of something pushing against my rectum became urgent" I don't know why, but I read this entire story in Dr. Evil's voice. Read it in my voice. Shit and Split. Shart and depart. A poo and shoo. Shite then flight Plop and hop Poot and scoot  Squirt and desert Defacate and defenstrate? Go and go Dump and dash  Sharted and darted Drop a turd and fly like a bird Poop and fly the coop Darude Shitstorm Shitrude - Fuckstorm A defecate and skate Shplit. Shit it and quit it. A drive-by Shitting. Shquit. Shit and hit? ["The Simpsons Shit &amp; Run" soon in stores~](http://i.imgur.com/wdmPmrk.png) Buy me Shitstorm or go to hell! [Shut up, Mom!](http://media.giphy.com/media/kKiLYEpk8nVU4/giphy.gif) Best TIFU in a while. Agreed. Nice to have a change of pace from the usual stories of people shitting themselves. OP went above and beyond to shit on other people for once.  &gt;OP went **above** and beyond to shit on other people 

Nice. Not so much above and beyond, the problem being she only went above So maybe above and upon? Yes, OP is re-defining an upper decker. But how was she supposed to know that shitting on people would cause such an uproar? Certainly no reason to make rude comments about her labia. Not only an I covered in feces, she has ugly labia! Don't you mean, above and beyond the call of doodie? I agree Meh, its no potatoe. Diarrhea of a 21 year old "Dear Diarrhea, today I..."  .....fucked up ... today shit hit the fan Some people would probably pay for that... :P  Yeah my old constipated pts who havnt pooped in days would totally pay to trade places! "Fended them off with a broom."

That must have been hilarious to see "Back! Back! Away with you, shit fiends!" Imagine looking up at a girls crotch that is spewing shit at you. That sight must be terryfing, engrossing and fascinating at the same time  Finally, some one who understands my fascination!  Is your username perfect because of this situation or is this situation perfect because of your username? *shituation Slow down there Sean Connery You're mother Trabek! You are a mother?  Nope, no 'a', so 'you are Mother Trabek.' I think he's saying Trabek is a nun. [deleted] https://i.imgur.com/GgLa9hI.gif Reeeeeaaaally risky click..... Probably just Scooby Doo that's my fetish.gif. [fetish.gif](http://gfycat.com/OrnateFlawedAfricanclawedfrog)  


---
^(*Feedback welcome at /r/image_linker_bot*)
 Now that's a risky click.  No telling what the bot dredged up. That is a high quality gif Imagine? How do you think I realized I had a fetish? I'm not German.  No, but she sure was Russian. I like how u gave a detailed description of how you pooed,  felt so real and immersed when i was reading the part like i was actually there watching you.... 
 Like *we* were there, watching her poo . . . While *we* all held hands Hey, my neck is wet. *our* necks are wet. The gutter is gushing on all of Reddit, collectively across the world. Meta
 Yeah, she definitely knows her shit. &gt; Luckily, their description was not correct  

I wonder if anyone else thought that "shaved" was the incorrect description Imagine a bunch of policemen walking from house to house and checking all the crotches to find the one that fits the description. It's like a modern version of Cinderella. Omg, now I have that picture in my mind, the labia recognition at the police dept, "Yes officer, I'm sure that is the labia I made rude comments about" It was a red letter day for the sketch artist lol
 Finally Jim realized that all his dirty grade school sketches had not gone to waste. No one was prepared for the task like he was. [The officer](http://i.imgur.com/0rRyD9l.jpg) Kinda reminds of the teen that was texting nudes back and forth with his teen gf. When her mom or dad found out they reported him and to identify him the cops took a picture of his erect dick to match the pics. He was charged with distributing child porn.  Seems like the police should be charged as well. What the fuck? Absolutely. It makes no sense whatsoever. The kid was 16 and his gf was 15 I think. If you're gonna charge him then round up half the teens in the US while you're at it.  A reverse-Porky's. This is fucking hilarious! Especially
&gt;they made a rude comment about my labia

 Yeah, what is up with OP's labia? SOOO tempted to bust out MS paint.

I don't have the lack of respect for that.

Where's one of them assholes always filling my inbox with moronic babble when you need them. Yes, you, reading this so you can find ammo to insult me. 

MSpaint her labia. Then stop pming me. Sigh, what am I doing with my life?

http://i.imgur.com/j4LmB40.jpg

EDIT: thank you my first gold ever for drawing some lady's diarrhea That looks like a Vincent van Going. My hair is a little bit strawberry coloured, but otherwise this image seems mostly appropriate. oh, my GOD I LOVE it!

Thanks!

Good God people, upvote this or give it to OP for the title picture! Providing a valuable contribution to society. Can  someone please paint this exact scene, and make it look like medieval artwork?

Please /r/icandrawthat  /r/artrequests [My artistic impression](http://i.imgur.com/Z3tGQop.png) I don't know. Its symmetric and the inner labia are mostly covered by the outer labia. I don't think that a lot of people would consider them to be unaesthetic.

 Was searching for this comment. Was not disappointed.  pic? Those bits are managed best if the ideal combination of advertisment and scarcity is maintained. Just one more reason why smoking is bad for your health. I can see the ads, complete with testimonials now.  http://i.imgur.com/5HzO7b2.jpg Can you imagine if that happened regularly? Post-coital cigarette and bam, shart shower from out of nowhere. "Throughout my entire life, I told myself that I would never smoke, that it was bad for you. But then I went to college, and while I could resist the peer pressure in high school, college was a different beast all together. Finally, after three months of trying, my friends finally convinced me to try it once. It . . . it was terrible.

We headed out to the stairs behind the building. Me, my friend John and his girl Sam, I forget what exactly we smoked, something minty, if I recall. I had just stopped coughing as much and was really starting to enjoy it, if I might confess, when we heard a door open somewhere above us. We three choose to ignore it, instead opting to stand in silence and enjoy the night. Besides, at the time, I thought it was just a couple coming to makeout on the stairs, as there was a party going on several floors above.

However our calm silence was not to last, about twenty seconds or so after we heard the door open, that was when it all happened. My friend John flinched as if something had hit him and looked up, 'Did the gutter tear or something?' 'My neck is wet' Sam replied. John was still looking up when he told us, 'Someone is up there'. He got out his keys, and used the tiny flashlight hooked to the key-ring to try to see who it was.

I don't quite remember what happened first, whether I smelled the shit first or whether I heard Sam scream out 'Shit, that's shit' before that. Even though my voice was still hoarse and sore from the cigarette, I still reflexively stated, 'He's shitting on us' quite incredulously. But John, who was still looking up with his light, had a better view than the both of us and corrected me, 'No dude, do you see that? That's a girl'.

I couldn't fucking believe it, a fucking drunk girl was throwing common decency and courtesy, respect, out the window and just using the back of the building as her own personal toilet. I was so livid I didn't hear was Sam said next, I think it was something rude about that girl's labia, I just wanted to go home and clean myself up. However, John and Sam wouldn't let it go, they both *had* to confront 'that bitch' who shit all over us, they really are both quite alike. It was then that we could hear the door close again, and that quickly forced me to follow both John and Sam to the sixth floor, although I really had no choice as John had the key back to our room.

We could easily hear the party when we reached the floor and John went straight for their door. The next few moments aren't clear to me. I am not a sociable person under normal circumstances, and the fact that I was now covered in feces knocking on some strangers door to a room full of even more strangers did nothing to improve my anxiety. Honestly, all I remember was both John and Sam yelling to be let in to find the drunk girl, while the guy who opened the door had started to scream at us to leave, us being covered in shit and all. Somewhere along the lines they had gotten a broom and were using it to push us away from the dorm, much like you would a stray who was bothering your house animals. But perhaps the worst moment of all this, yes even worse then being covered in some strange girl's watery waste, was the crowd of onlookers that was beginning to form. At first it was a crowd formed from those living on the floor. Then the crowd grew larger than what that floor could hold, which is when, to my horror, I realized that these people weren't all from this dorm and that someone from inside the room was yelling for help to those outside, causing a crowd to form around the three of us. To this day, I have never been more horrified.

It was during all this that I witness a rather conspicuous girl trying to push her way past all this chaos to escape. She looked frazzled and embarrassed as she pushed her way through the crowd. This girl was also walking rather oddly, and I realized that this might be the culprit who shat on us. Unfortunately, she was able to make her way past us before I could grab her, but I was able to call to John 'It was her, the one in the blue shirt!' He never heard me as he was still in a shouting match with the rooms occupants, I then choose this moment to also make my escape. I made my way to my room, where I must have waited fifteen minutes before I finally gave up and took a shower with my clothes on. At some point, John had gotten back to the room, gotten a change of clothes and left, leaving the door unlocked for me, thank god. The next morning the event was all over Campus and the University's Facebook, apparently John and Sam had talked to the management and gave a description, apparently while John never heard me shout to him, Sam did, but she misheard me, which is why I read that this drunk girl was in a blue skirt and not shirt, as I had witnessed her wearing. Funnily enough, they also reported that she was shaved, although I have no idea how that would help, however I do know that both Sam and John will never stop looking for this girl until we find her.

But no, I do not smoke, never again after that. The next time I tried, I got this overwhelming feeling of anxiety as well as a feint smell of shit in my nostrils." Two details: I wore pants and I left after they had been rushed into someones bathroom. faint* right? just looking out for you bro 8 crazy reasons why you should never smoke! The 6th one is incredibly shitty! \&gt; Introduce a girl, "lets abbreviate her as A"

\&gt; Never use A She should've called her "I", then the story is about someone else.  Today, "I" Fucked Up. g'ahhhh I swear. Every time. I looked, too. What a fucked up abbreviation to use, when so many sentences start with 'A'.
 Literally a party-pooper.  [Jennifer poops at parties?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gjwofYhUJEM) I'm both ashamed of myself for not having thought of this joke and of Reddit for not upvoting this to the top.  Haha, thanks! I'm just as surprised no one said it either. Just happy to provide some insightful commentary ;) "My neck is wet" 

"is the gutter broken?" 

oooww.. pure innocence...  Well, most people don't expect to be shat on.  That sounds like a American pie skit.  I'm surprised noone's asked for the photographic evidence yet.

Though why you'd want to see someone with shit all over them, I'm not sure. Great TIFU anyway! I think it would be rude and a gross invasion of privacy to post pictures of those people online. They had already been going through enough shit.  &gt;They had already been going through enough shit.

() &gt; I'm ~~surprised~~  

*disappointed

 I very seriously have tears running down my face from laughing so hard.

God I've never read something so funny! Well done, going to my saved stuff.  Chocolate rain Some stay dry and others feel the pain! Some stay dry while others feel the pain Four days of constipation and this girl is glum,
After days of struggle, nothing came out her bum.
Anus shut tight and a super swollen belly,
Something was brewing and it was bound to be smelly.


Ah ha! She exclaimed, as she thought up a cure.
Laxitives are the thing, they'll unplug my ass for sure!
Three pills soon get necked and the timer is set,
Not more than five hours before you're shitting I bet.


A party, some drink, a bit of distraction,
From the God awful, rising, belly reaction.
Things were processing, at the pit of her gut
And the aforementioned anus, was no longer shut.


Plucking up her courage and clenching her cheeks,
She waddled and waddled for what seemed like weeks.
Finally, the bathroom, the end was drawing near,
But a drunk guy and some fuck wits had all passed out there. 


She clenched even harder and escaped out a door,
This is it now, its coming for sure.
Her toilet of choice, was a rather leaky grate,
And it was here, mid pooping, she realised her mistake.


Her torrent of filth, flowed freely through, tumbling and splashing, in a glorious shower of poo.
This wouldn't be so bad, if it wernt for the jeers,
From the people she was shitting on under the stairs!

Edit: Thanks for the gold :)
 I don't remember this Dr. Seuss story..... Horton Hears a Poo? Shat in the Hat The jeers turned to tears and the tears into hate, they had to know who shat through the grate!

They rushed up in waves towards the suspected shitter, with an easy description "shaved, blue skirted, and sinister".  

Once they arrived, chaos was brought with! It was time to prosecute the person who shit!  

Rushed with adrenaline and covered in poo, they attacked the door but wasn't let through.  

The bashful pooer: now distraught, embarrassed, and asshole agape; had to get out, she had to escape!  

She made it out quite easy like her turds from before, nobody knew her, she walked out the front door  

she then headed home her victims fresh in her mind; covered in shit from her constipated behind  

Everyone has cleaned up but not one will forget, when they thought it was rain, but instead was just shit  
Edit: Thanks for the gold!

 She dashed to the bathroom, cleaned herself up, removed the tissue stuffed in her butt.


Her friend arrived home and showed her the snaps, of two men and a lady, covered in crap.


A description was given, the victims were irked, but her shirt, in good fortune, was mistook for a skirt.


Good laughs on Facebook were had by all, bar the trio on which the shit did fall.


In hindsight she wished her bowels had obeyed, but all things considered at least she had shaved. And that my dear children is how it came to be, 

That blue shirt wearing /u/redcardigans, rained on a party of three,

And to reddit she came, her agony to boast,

And amateur bards mused her tragedy to post

These words that you read as I know put to rest,

The ballad of the party pooper and her last conquest.
 And that, kids, is how I met your mother. A+ for effort Taking laxatives before going really gets the ***potty*** started Sharted &gt; I quickly wiped with a tissue that i already had at my hands.

Really? A tissue after that? I need half a roll of toilet paper for my usual shits.

Also, [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vpDHcxnGYt8) and [this](http://imgur.com/gallery/U5VfK) [i thought for sure you were going to link this](http://awesomegifs.com/wp-content/uploads/parks-and-recreation-sometimes-when-i-poop-andy.gif) First time I've ever seen that. Plaza can't hold the giggles. I couldn't either.  I just noticed that. I didn't know Aubrey Plaza was capable of laughter. She's not. That was breaking character.

Well, in fairness, I guess she laughs when puppies die and children think the divorce is their fault. This is a TIFU? You got to shit on people, cause a riot and get away with it. I'd call that a win I guess you can say the people below were "Shit-Faced" [Is your name Jennifer?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gjwofYhUJEM) I poop at parties, but I close the door.  So, the peoples don't know dis. Imagine if the girl and one of the guys were on a date. 

By escape stairs, i presume that OP means fire escape stairs. Did the floor just have holes for the water to run off, or was it really a grate? The floor looked [like this](http://www.shanghaimetal.com/uploadfile/steel%20grating%202%20metal%20watermark/smc%20Steel-Grating-Platform-OEM-.jpg).

As far as i heard, the girl and one of the guys are in fact dating. They apparently showered together at someones bathroom on that floor. Doesn't sound overly romantic. I'm sorry for them but I didn't cause this intentionally. You should be safe now, they can no longer collect DNA evidence to pursue you. Imagine cleaning poop out of your SOs hair and trying to kiss him/her but beeing deterred by random poop on their cheeks. Nope. No offence, but if you are constipated all the time. Maybe it is time for a drastic diet change.  Time for a fecal transplant. Op already did this Involuntary fecal transplant I take psyllium husk on most days, it is supposed to keep things moving. However, the menstrual cycle can and will cause constipation. Drink more water.  This is usually it for most people. Not always, but a lot of people don't drink as much water as they should, and especially around period time for the womens. And fibres. Fibres make for smooth poop.

But remember: a smooth sea never made a skillful sailor. Practice makes perfect, you need to know your metabolism and you won't be constipated.  

Or seek professional medical advice.  I'm just a redditor. Yeah, I get constipated when I'm on my period. But right before it starts, I get diahrrea. See, I'm the other way around. I get really bloated and clogged for a few days beforehand, and then the exact day my period hits it... just... My god, it doesn't bear thinking about.  Are you not worried about people randomly going over reddit and finding out who you are. I mean we know you life with a roommate who loves to go to parties and you are kind of shy and don't drink. Congratulations. You have established dominance, and these people are now your slaves. 

No, but in all seriousness, that was fucking impressive. Seems like the perfect opportunity to page /u/Shitty_Watercolour Taking three tablets of Dulcolax is a recipe for disaster. Just hope none of them browse reddit or they'll have a pretty good chance of figuring out it was you. That's enough reddit for today.  I'm just getting started (   ) I regret reading this on my phone at work. Can't stop chuckling, desperate trying to hold back a real laughter while my coworkers are giving me side eyes. Best TIFU in a long time... TAKE THEM! If you eat their side-eyes, you get their vision. Posts like this are the reason why i am reading this su b Whats the matter with your labia?  Some people pay good money for that kind of thing. Like you? Hey! Do you use dwarf fortress? That description in the beginning sounds a LOT like a dwarf's description.  Ah the old Chicago Sun Roof trick Thank you so much for sharing your story. I'm waiting in line at the DMV (couldn't get an appointment) and this made me laugh boisterously while being surrounded by bored sheeplike people. Thanks! :D Dearest /u/awildsketchappeared 1 girl, 3 laxatives. I just came home from a long walk, i did not expect this to get so much attention. Your famous anus entertains us. I suddenly want some cookies. http://imgur.com/JbyYMzP That was you?!!! If you really know about this, then please link us to the Facebook drama that OP mentioned following this. 

Edit: /u/Reukies, I'm calling BS. I think you just wanted to ride on OP's poop-covered coattails.  Yes! Facebook links or it doesn't count! You correctly established dominance over the whole neighborhood. Now **THAT** is asserting some dominance.  Y'all need to take notes. LPT: If you tell such a story something like:

&gt; Luckily, their description was not correct, they mistook my blue shirt for a skirt.

Should become something like this:

&gt; Luckily, their description was not correct.

If you add what was not wrong, then when a person who knows of this event reads it, and knows you, then he/she will most likely know it was you.

&gt; My roommate returned two hours later, she showed me some photos she had made of the poor people below me.

This should've been changed, too, to something like this:

&gt; after the event I got my hands on the photos of what happened to the people below me.

This makes it impossible to know when exactly and from whom you got those photos. Your roommate will probably know that you were in said apartement, had a blue shirt and that she showed you the photos about 2 hours after the event.

If you don't want to get caught, change some things that are not known about you, or don't mention them, otherwise someone who sees your TIFU may recognize you, and then you would've fucked up again: "TIFU by getting caught due to a TIFU post" Could we get the photos your friend got as a confirmation? And so i can laugh my ass some more cause that was hilarious ! Party pooper This could almost be an r/nosleep story. Am I the only person who thought 'Chicago Sunroof' on reading the title of the TIFU? I guess you could say they had a shitty night. () I, too, took 3 Dulcolax one time, but luckily I was home. I had the same symptoms and rushed to the toilet, but felt so faint that I could not bear to sit and had to lie on the bathroom floor. Let's just say I didn't even make it to the tub :/. Never ever taking that stuff again. I recommend taking pure whole leaf aloe juice, instead - great for your digestion and more. Hope you feel better :). Dude, if they mistook your shirt for your skirt, then there's no way they'd have seen your labia, they were just being shitty.

You shouldn't feel bad about your bits. I read this while pooping and now have an inferiority complex &gt;I had decency, so abusing the sink was out of question.  
&gt;I rushed out of the flat and began to search for something.  
**There were no secluded corners or cabinets.**

So, cabinets and corners...pretty decent locals for a fecal foray, but...  
&gt;I realized that i was caught.  
I put my hands on my stomache to increase the pressure  
**to finish as soon as possible**

Having all assets fully committed does **NOT** preclude withdrawing.  
Then again, maybe they were playing Dylan.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RYfYy362wHs

Reddit: Where decency is continuing to poop on others, just not in the sink. oh yes... great.. Can you PLEASE get the pic from your friend As someone with IBS and sitting on the toilet as we speak, I feel your pain.  Your fuck up was agreeing to go to the party knowing you had taken laxatives. That's an all-night kind of commitment.  I haven't laughed this hard in so long. Thank you so much. YES. You're my hero.

Edit: Very well written too when it comes to flow. I felt like I was there with you. I guess we know who the party pooper was. This is the best TIFU I have ever read. I can't believe you got away with it. Absolutely amazing. Not totally your fault, you tried to use the bathroom. That drunk guy's friends should have removed him from the toilet. Wow, I'm amazed at how detailed some people write their TIFUs. This TIFU had so many literary devices: a preface, foreshadowing, metaphors (a garden hose inside my butt), suspense ("My neck is wet..."), sexual innuendo ("upskirt flashlight labia"), a climax (chaos, fighting with brooms), and a dramatic epilogue (an official APB for shaved pussy). Well done! I feel like this could easily be converted to a rate PG-13/R Jurassic Park type thriller. I can just see the T-Rex scene with the thunder and flash of lightning that illuminates the eye and freaks out the kids, except instead of the eye, it's the butthole with shit spewing out and people screaming.  "They made a rude comment about my labia." Don't act as if an insult wasn't warranted when you started shitting on them. Sounds like everyone had a pretty shitty night.  Jim Lahey would be proud. "Do you hear that, Randy?! It's the sound of the shitgutter breaking, leaking shit, on all the ungrateful shitsmokers standing below with only the shitgrate to slow down the permeating fall of 4 days of shit, Randy!"  A shit post.  Made it rain on them, chocolate rain that is.  If that was me I'd kick the drunk people out of the bathroom and just do it. Or at the very least just shove the guy off the toilet. They're passed out, and drunk so they probably wouldn't care you're using the toilet. Cleveland steamer Completely your fault for going out, knowing you'd poop in 6 hours Don't feel too bad OP, my mom lost 4 fingers in a car accident and always asks for a 40% discount when she has her nails done. Most places accommodate her too.  Sucks coming from Norfolk. We have to pay extra for having our nails done. Surely there's some sort of family discount? "Your sister and mother were in the other day" 
 &gt; Your sister and mother **was** in the other day.

FTFY 'How is auntie flo doing these days?' I lost tips of my fingers when I was 8-9 years old. That's real TIFU FAIL STUPID moment. 
At that time my friend and I use to steal bullets from our parents just to extract bullet powder and make firecrackers from it. It was war at the time 1991-1995 so guns and bullets were everywhere and we had lot time on our hands, summer break. It was quite easy to do it from normal bullets but one day I found special bullet used to launch small grande/mine from tip of the rifle. Special about that bullet is that it has no tip, it has a shell squeezed on top and bullet powder inside. I couldn't get it open "convectional" way so I came up with idea that changed rest of my life. I would use grinder just to open it up a bit from the side and the powder will get out. I was holding the bullet with three fingers in left hand and grinder in right. At one point, boom and just like in the movies, you hear beep in your ears you can't see clearly and that second kind of last forever. I remember doing the aftermath during that black out time and these were my exact thoughts "What was that? The bullet probably exploded. Why? Because it probably got hot from the grinding you stupid fuck (rough translation from my native language). So if it really exploded that means it probably hurt my fingers. Well, if it hit your fingers it probably got your eyes because you were looking at it. Fuuuuuuuuuck, my mom is going to kill me, how will I explain this, now I will have to admit that I played with bullets this whole time!!!!!!!". I swear to God, these were my exact thoughts. Shoooowp, back to reality, smoke is slowly going away and I see bone of my pointing finger, all white, no drop of the blood. Funny thing is, at that time we used to open land mines and hand grenades to extract explosive and as we went to hospital it turns out at the same time some guys bit older then me were playing with hand grande, they lost entire hands, parts of face, horrible. As I saw that I turn to my mom and say "See, it could of been worse".

I was so embarrassed and you can't really hide shit like that, so I lied for next 5 years of my life about what really happened.  

EDIT: OMG this exploded more then bullet in my fingers. Thanks for the gold. Totally wasn't expecting this. Please don't make me comment about Yugoslav wars and who is to blame.  l m f a o 

that's an a amazing fucking story dude, what country? At the time it was on Serbian side of Croatia. 
I forgot to mention, couple of days earlier I stepped on nail and it came trough on the other side of the foot so I was in hospital for that. And this was very small town and it was war time so all the doctors are always there. So when they brought me in this time doctors were like "WTF, DUDE?!?! Really, again?!?!" Goddamn that must have been nuts. Those wars have always confused the fuck out of me, I can never get straight who was fighting who and why. Sorry your area had to go through that  Actually, for me, not so much. First 5 and last 7 days of war were only critical, otherwise it was quite "normal" childhood. Beverly Hills, TMNT, school. We were 20 KM from front line and we had UN forces stationed nearby so I actually saw war only on news. Problem was we were surrounded with guns, bombs, ammunition whole time because our stupid fathers ,who btw were not there because they were holding the line, brought that shit home for some reason.   About who was fighting who is quite simple. After WWII Croatia was defined as country of Croatians and Serbs(equal rights). When Yugoslavia fell apart Croatians said fuck you now it's only country of Croatians you don't have that constitutional rights. Then Croatian Serbs said "We'll see about that. We have entire Yugoslav National Army behind us. That's not right". Serbs tried for 5 years to take part of Croatia for themselves, because that's where they actually lived, so it was not "occupied" it was actually the same as before, they owned that land actually, more or less. Then America said, that's it we had enough with you all, fuck off, we prefer Croatia, you Serbs side with Russians anyway and helped Croatia to throws us the fuck out like when you make trouble in club and bouncer throws you out. Actually they threw around 300k people in 7 days out of the country. Hard to imagine these days.  Bosnia and Kosovo is much more complicated :)      This is a rather... slanted... view of the war.

Another way to describe it would be that Yugoslavia had consisted of several separate geographic areas with their own ethnic identities, which worked well as one country through WWII and early Communism.  All was well through the 1980s, until Tito died, and the Serbian-dominated government of Milosevic that took over ran the country into the ground economically and began favoring Serbs over everyone else.

Croatia, Bosnia, and Slovenia said "If that's how you want to play it, we'd really rather be our own countries like we used to be.  Let's vote on it."  The vote was 93% for secession, 7% for remaining part of Yugoslavia.  Milosevic said "fuck you, you'll let Serbs do whatever we want and you'll like it."  Serbian forces then attacked the legitimate Croatian government, and it broke out into war.  Both sides committed atrocities and were later charged with war crimes.

My account is also slanted, but in the other direction.  Not simple at all.  The truth is much more complicated, and somewhere in the middle.

A good analogy would be like if Texas and Louisana started out as one country called Texliana.  Louisiana voted to secede, and Texans living in Louisiana began carrying out terrorist attacks in Shreveport.  Louisana said "Stop that!".  The Texans don't stop, so Louisana said "Alright, get out and go back to Texas".  They don't, and instead Texas invades Louisana and starts putting people in camps until the UN gets involved. Well, I cannot help but note that this narration of the events is very one-sided.
Before Croatians made direct pressure on the Serb minority, there was a [large exodus of croats from the Serb-majority regions](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Republic_of_Serbian_Krajina#/media/File:Demographics_of_RSK.jpg), which was allegedly partially coordinated by the Miloevi regime in Belgrade. But going back to the roots of the conflict, the main issue that escalated the situation was the decision made by the Croat and Slovene governments, that Yugoslavia will disband after a prolonged economic recession and an ever increasing military threats coming from the federal level of government as well Serbia itself. But this decision from the former two was not made within a few weeks, as the Slovene and Croat delegates particularly demanded the reduction of Yugoslav state into a confederation, while Serbian-dominated Belgrade federal government demanded to increase centralisation. All this resulted in no deal, rise of nationalism, particularly in Serbia, but not excluding Croatia. All the rest is known. Bosnian government played no major role in the whole ordeal. Probably, because I was on one side. I am speaking about real story, this is all official, western view of events. I can tell you that as much as Croats flee from Serbian side that much Serbs flee to another side. Fact is that people also flee from border areas mostly, where war is actually most intense. I can tell you for a fact that on Serbian side, where I lived where next to each other complete Serbian and complete Croatian villages and everyone stayed there during entire war and after without any problems. 

We talk about what we want, but Croatian idea was clear from begging, even before 1941, not 1991 and they succeeded at that. I they succeeded at that with such perfection that entire thing is questionable.   Damn that shit's cray It's an extremely slanted view of a very complex conflict. Croatians would call it a war of independence and would paint themselves in a better light. Source: Majority of my family is from Croatia. Truth is somewhere in between, eh? &gt; so I lied for next 5 years of my life about what really happened.

What kind of lie did you come up with? I'm racking my brain for the most plausible way to lose the tips of your fingers before the age of ten in wartime Croatia, and all of them involve an explosive device. I used to tell everyone, including my father that I was trying to sharpen my knife (I actually had my own knife at the time) and my hand got stuck in grinder because it looked something like this http://toolguyd.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/Engineer-Inc-TG-02-Grinder.jpg Wow, your 1991-1995 was very different than mine. I think I shit myself while camping once. Your English is really good! The grammar is a bit off, but otherwise it's perfectly understandable.

&gt;The bullet probably exploded. Why? Because it probably got hot from the grinding you stupid fuck.

This is actually spot on!

Also I hope you're doing ok without your fingertips. Cheers! It been 20 years so it's ok now. I remember taking the bandages of couple of weeks later and all of my fingernails on that hand were black and started to come of so I could lift them from side. Scared the shit out of kids in school :)   What really impressed me about their English is that they made an error which is usually only made by native speakers  - "could of".  This is what happens when you practice your English on reddit. A disability is what you make of it, some people wallow and some people get 40% discounts. Hopefully for you OP she's one of the latter. 

Edit: A word &gt; A disability is what you make of it, some people wallow and some people get 40% discounts. Hopefully you OP she's one of the latter. 

A friend of mine lost all of his fingers on his right hand and still has his thumb. If he pours you a drink and asks you how many fingers you want (for measurement) expect a really strong drink. 
 One of my older brothers lost three of his fingers on his right hand a few years back. So we get to the hospital and the first thing he says, with a shit eating grin on his face, is "this sucks, my left hand can't jerk me off for shit" My dad lost half of his middle finger in a snowblower accident as a teen. He still tells people that he gave the wrong guy the finger. 

Making a dad joke about a lost appendage? That's one way to own it.

EDIT: Who knew that the most upvoted comment I've ever posted to Reddit would have to do with my dad and his awful sense of humor? And his half-finger. &gt;own it.

I thought he gave it away? Dad? My Dad grew up in Chicago. He told me one night on the way home from the movies he took a short cut through an alley (this isn't a Batman reference) he got jumped by a group of Mexican Gangsters and was sliced with a knife along his lower torso. He had a nasty scar. I told this story to my friends and thought my dad was a real bad ass. Turns out 20 years later I ask him about the story and he had his appendix removed due to a car accident or something. My whole childhood was a lie. Yea dads do that. It starts with Santa they were mexican gangsters doing their residency in chicago. it's not that unusual. Knew a dude who lost a couple digits to a band saw. Used to tell all the kids who asked that he lost them wrestling alligators. Hmm my grandfather lost half of his middle finger in a snowblower accident....Are you my dad?? Which hand? 

[furiously deleting past comments] Left hand Admittedly you had a 50/50 shot, but my dad's is also on his left.

Hands down the most /r/mildlyinteresting thing I've encountered on Reddit. My dad is also /u/jcort90's grandfather. 

TIL: My dad has a second family with a grandchild old enough to post on Reddit about how their granddad lost his middle finger. Wait, so your dad had another kid who had a kid that happens to be /u/jcort90? So jcort is 25. You and your half brother are 45/55 ish, and your dad is 60s/70s. Totally plausible. But is it true? 