Fine Starbucks, next time a vulnerability is found the person should instead simply publicly release the information and you can deal with the consequences. That is some PhD level PR work you're doing there. Yep! Going public was the correct response to this, which forces them to pay attention and gives the white hat a public paper trail. You had your chance and blew it, Starbucks. I almost went public with an Angie's List vulnerability after trying to report it repeatedly to their brain dead customer service. Instead, I WHOIS'd the domain and sent it directly to two system admins who passed it onto an operations director of some kind and promptly fixed it. He called me to apologize for their aforementioned brain dead customer service and thanked me for persisting until I got to the right person with almost a decade of free annual subscriptions. And this is an important point.  If you can get the message to a competent tech, they're more likely to want to actually fix the problem.  It's the more ignorant/lazy employees who will just see *you* as the problem. You get the workers you pay for. Pay peanuts; get monkeys. It's a blow back from their strategy of having a customer service dead end.

When I worked in Verizons home service billing the number one priority was ending calls within a certain amount of time.  

Callers where being bounced around and hung up on endlessly by employees being hammered to end calls within 9 minutes.  The slow out-dated systems took about two minutes or more to just bring up all of the customers account info.  About 2-3 minutes of verification and asking why they're calling.  Customers would inevitably loose their shit and wan't to vent, took more time of the allotted 9 minutes they didn't know they had before the phone rep transferred the call.

In my short time working for this evil company I witnessed my share of highly un-ethical behavior that the company could pass off as the actions of just one disgruntled employee to avoid any ramifications.  I saw it happen MANY times.

Employees are given sales incentives that are damn near impossible to get when the vast majority of calls are from irate customers or people calling to cancel.  So, employees would add all sorts of packages to peoples accounts knowing full well that they would get their bonus and it would be at least one month before the new billing cycle alerted the customer.

I saw grandmothers have hundreds of porno's charged to them, I've seen accounts where the representative would add packages and sign them up for contracts... contracts with a 200 dollar early termination fee... not waved.

I was only able to do the job so long before I feel genuinely disgusted and unable to continue.  About 3 months.   I have a persistent XSS into a website in the top 2000 alexa rank. I first reported it in 2013 and have been repeatedly reporting it every few months.

The customer support people say a different thing every time. Sometimes it's "It's only a visual problem." I tried telling them that I can steal people's accounts, or create a worm like the [Samy worm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samy_%28computer_worm%29). One time they said they would forward it to their product team, but it's still not fixed.

Their whois email is just some domain name management service. Find the owner/upper management on LinkedIn. Send them all messages. That should get a response. Well, he only went public after they fixed it. And it seems like that rude response came right after they fixed it. A few years ago I found a major security problem with a big online shop. The admin url had coded out &lt;!-- Like this --&gt; admin password. I was able to login and get all kinds of sensitive information and even adjust prices if I wanted to.

I send an email to the shop with a cc to the developer informing them of the problem, and did not hear anything for days. Then I got a letter from their lawyer accusing me of breaking into their system! It cost me a few hundred Euro to hire a lawyer to respond to their letter! Wow, apparently "view source" is now breaking into a system.... So is manipulating a URL, apparently. I'm a veteran of many a great flame war over what constitutes "hacking". &gt; I was able to login

The key is left in the door its still trespass. Something like this. More like I found a key at their door. Put it in the door to see if the door really unlocks. Then informed the owners that they left their key near their door.

My lawyer said that because I caused no damage and used the information to verify it and informed the owner within minutes, they had no claim.

Had I gone public with the information, that would have been a bigger problem. As there would have been a big change I had to pay for the direct damage.
 &gt; Had I gone public with the information, that would have been a bigger problem. As there would have been a big change I had to pay for the direct damage.

Just post it on 8chan or something and call it a day.
 but not breaking and entering. He can always say he was invited inside  The code *seduced* me, your honor! Buy a cheap smartphone on Craigslist, drive pretty far to a random place with wifi, set up a huge sale on their site, everything is a dollar. Destroy evidence.  I just wanted to help a (small) business owner. They were a small company. Now they are an international business worth hundreds of millions of euros. Guess being ruthless assholes paid more than being kind. 
 The lesson is: never be nice toward other people. Being nice to people is much different then being nice to a company.

You should be nice to people, but companies don't care, they are out to make money. The lesson is:  No good deed goes unpunished. 

Nice people get screwed. . . . . and not in a good way. For what it's worth, you did the right thing. It sucks that you got financially penalized for doing the right thing, needless to say- but at least you know that you're one of the good guys. A civil society relies on the existence of people like you, so thanks. Should have had a closeout sale to raise the money. ;)  Wow what a shit company.  Bite that hand that feeds. As a dev, my company's response would have been "OH SHIT", a hotfix, and a friendly email thanking them for making our product better for everybody. Honestly. Would they have rather he NOT told them about the exploit? As a developer, I am not required to directly interface with users of the products I create. But EVERY time I get a bug report, I personally follow up with an email thanking them for reporting the bug, and let them know once I've fixed the issue And thats just for normal bugs, but if someone reported a security exploit? I'd offer to send them a damn starbucks giftcard or something in return, those people are doing me a service.  A friend ordered the "ninja remote" off a major online retailer about 5-6 years back.  Ninja remote is just a tv remote that will autocode to any tv suppposedly, so you can mess with your neighbors and whatnot.  The problem is he made the ninja remote free by changing the price, partially to test his concept of the vulnerability.  

He got the ninja remote, he also got a letter from a federal agency threatening prosecution for cyber crimes if he were to ever repeat the offense or even speak of it publicly. So you're speaking of it publicly for him? I'm always amazed at how fucking tone deaf these organizations are about this kind of thing. It's like they get to a point were they are so financially successful that they hire all these jackdaws to run their operations who have no idea how valuable this sort of information is. Basically this "hacker" potentially saved them millions in lost revenue and all they can think to do is harass them. Morons.  They probably think fear of prosecution will stop others from trying. And they're right. 

Oh, malicious/black-hat attackers don't care? Whoops...

Edit: Swype does annoying things sometimes &gt; Basically this "hacker" potentially saved them millions in lost revenue and all they can think to do is harass them.

Additionally, he not only *didn't* charge them or ask for anything (it would cost tens of thousands of dollars to hire a proper security firm to find something like this), he even deposited the $1.70 that he was able to exploit. Could just sell the info. There are markets for such exploits. Organized crime would buy it and make good money with it before Starbucks would notice. Not a good thing.

Smart companies like Google have programs for finding exploits, with fixed bounties, depending on the severity of what you found. That's how its done correctly. As an everyday person though, involving oneself in those markets isn't always the safest idea.  True, I certainly wouldn't recommend it. But for many semi-professional exploit hunters, this would probably be an alternative that passes their minds.  To be fair, those smart companies like Google are technology and internet companies. Starbucks, while they rely pretty heavily on technology these days, is a coffee company. While I'm sure they have a team of IT security experts, the company as a whole is not as well-versed in how to deal with these issues, and they're certainly not as concerned with maintaining a stranglehold over their data (like Google is with your advertising profile data) or your data (nobody cares about somebody knowing what kind of coffee you buy and credit card database leaks are not really that hard to fix from a PR standpoint).

This does not excuse their actions whatsoever, but I'd be surprised if Starbucks ever implemented a bug bounty program.

Perhaps if there was a centralized bug bounty program that any smaller company could subscribe to so they didn't have to implement their own public-facing documentation and policies? Poor pr choices like this seem to truly show just how disorganized these large corporations can be, this isn't true for all, but there are so many hands that have such a hard time talking to each-other that even if they had good intentions, the communication chain is going to breakdown somewhere along the line. I think that if you find a bug in a system that you have no stake in, you should just shut the fuck up about it. It's beyond clear that the very best outcome for you is that you'll get a pat on the back, and at worst you'll be sent to federal pound-me-in-the-ass prison, so it's definitely a smarter move for your own well-being to simply not disclose the bug and let the corporations fall from their own short-sightedness. Update: [Here's proof for this story.](https://www.cheapassgamer.com/topic/128532-the-old-gamerushblockbuster-thread/page-32). My CAG username is "kunai." You can just follow from that page and also see other crazy epic scores I've made. (Like the insane "Get any 5 games for $5 each" Blockbuster promo).

------

Back in the day (2007/2008) I found a major flaw in the POS at Blockbuster

Their system would update overnight, but only certain parts, and these parts were on different days of the week. Their new item prices would update on Thursday, their used prices would update on Friday- BUT their trade-in values would update after closing on Sunday.

This meant if a game dropped in MSRP, it's new version would first lower on Thursday morning ($49.99 to $19.99) and be cheaper than the used version. The next day, on Friday morning, it's used version would be lowered ($47.99 to $17.99).

The trade-in value would still be the same- usually $30-$35, even though you could pull the game off the rack, buy it for $20, then trade in back without leaving the line.

I did this a few times and felt bad so I emailed corporate to let them know about the loophole. They told me they didn't take in information/suggestions from outside parties, essentially because they had that set up as part of their "business strategy."

I then proceeded to assist them in their endeavors by buying 25+ copies of Beowulf from Best Buy for $9.99 ($19.99-$10 coupon) and trading them in for ~$800 in store credit.

Then I repurchased all 25 copies with the store credit for ~$500.

Then I traded them in again.

Then I bought them again.

I did this a few times over the weekend and ended up with $1200 in store credit from $250 cash. 

Then I found a few games GameStop gave good money for and traded them in over there for store credit. I made some preorder and eventually canceled them and requested cash back for the deposit.

I eventually got a letter from Blockbuster banning me from trading, but it had the wrong date (post dated for the next year) and I kept trading.

I don't feel bad about it. Have to wonder about the guy at the counter... "Yes sir, here's your money. OK sir, here's your money again. Yes, I realize how fucked up this is. I tried to tell them too but they don't listen to me either. No thanks, I'd like to keep my job. So how many more times am I going to ring this up for you today?" He actually called up corporate and they told him "if the computer allows it, it's fine."
 There was another flaw that caused all calls to corporate to be rerouted to Netflix admins. Hm, this corporate number looks fishy, someone crossed out Netflix and penciled in "Blockbuster lol"

Fuck it. This is hilarious. "Computers never make mistakes".  But the idiots that program them, do. :P All hail the com-pu-tar Translation: "I'm too lazy to deal with this shit" Wow they thought they were invincible  As if the Titanic had charged the iceberg.  thats hilarious. Letting a computer make a corporate decision.  Classic case of "not paid enough to give a shit". I'm imagining him as an NPC. I went to return a DVD at Best Buy once, and they wouldn't take an opened copy. "All we can do is exchange it for a new one," the girl tells me. So I say, "Okay, I'll do that." So she exchanges them out, then adds with a smile, "Don't return it here."

The next Best Buy wasn't too far away, so it worked out. So *you're* the reason Blockbuster went out of business. Nah, Blockbuster is the reason Blockbuster went out of business. This is the correct answer. I went into a Blockbuster when I was in business school, and after looking at the racks of clothing and other seemingly random items, recall thinking "this is a great case study in a business losing all sight of their core competency." ...i mean, also, netflix and the internet. Blockbuster screwed Blockbuster! IT WAS ME, BLOCKBUSTER! IT WAS ME ALL ALONG! Son of a bitch! Squaredcircle is leaking again Even my family bought it! EVEN MY IMMEDIATE FAMILY BOUGHT IT AND TRADED IT IN FOR MORE Also Netflix.  It's funny, because blockbuster had the opportunity to buy Netflix, and they decided it wasn't a good investment.  The guy who created Redbox bent over for them and they told him to fuck off as well. So blockbuster killed blockbuster  Blockbuster had the resources to stomp Netflix when it first started. It's their own fault they didn't adapt. If Netflix didn't do it, another company would have. I'd say it was their business strategy that made them go out of business. Well you shouldn't feel bad when you told them about the exploit and they ignored it BUT IT WAS A STRATEGY!!!! STEP 1 - BUY GAMES FOR MORE THAN THEY'RE WORTH

STEP 2 - ???

STEP 3 - PROFIT And as we can see their shareholder value is second to nothing! As a former BBV employee I would just like to say, well done! Their crappy business strategies and policies were total shit and they deserved what they got. [deleted] I did this for Pick Up Stix when they first did online ordering. You could get a discount if you added two combos to your order. You could then remove one of them, add it back, and it gave you an additional discount. You could stack them enough times to get free food. I only stacked two discounts because I didn't want them to fix it. Post the picture if you still have it [deleted] said thing is, that isn't even really "whistle-blowing." telling a company about a flaw in their system that could cost them a lot of money is just trying to help them. people won't do it tho because they may get in trouble instead. odd.  That's fuckin awesome. What I've been doing at the moment is signing up for audible accounts in loads of different countries on the same email. Gives you a free book each time and all you have to do is change the country in the app and log back in. Got the whole of Game of thrones atm. If you have another card then you can use another email and get like 6 more books. Can't they remove/deactivate the books if they caught on? They could, but the books were free anyway, what is the big deal if you lose them? Is there a sub for skeezing like this? I love shit like this. The thing about loopholes like this is that they get closed when enough people use them, just like Netflix is cracking down on us Netflix dns services.  Amazon is probably the only company I'd feel bad screwing.

Edit: thanks for the immoral support. lol

Amazon just never disappointed with their customer support. The margin of gain is a mutual agreement between you, the consumer, and seller.

Although I understand that there are absurd margins of gain that aren't justifiable. That's some Magic: The Gathering level shit right there.   He deserved thanks and some respect for *helping them*. When someone goes through all the proper channels, and etiquette to help, and gets verbally slapped for it, the next time there's a way to exploit their mistakes why would anyone dare speak up? Are corporations really that stupid as to bite hands that feed them? I was once involved in discovering a vulnerability so bad that it actually has a snopes page dedicated to it, so I think I have some insight into how this sort of thing happens.

I used to work at one of the $100 billion+ size software companies, and discovered a bug that would allow anyone, without authentication, to alter or create content on their public site. No backend data were compromised, but any page accessible to the public could be modified.

I spent the better part of 3 months reporting this issue, informing people on our side and managers of various departments on their side. I sent regular status followups asking who was fixing this and when, and 10 out of 10 managers agreed: they weren't the ones responsible.

After months of attempted cat-herding for a group I had no career or economic incentive to help, I come into the office to find everyone in a panic. Client X has had been "hacked"! Suddenly, that same group of managers who had routinely avoided taking any action to implement an extremely simple fix, were now sending out long emails to every department. Phrases about how they take this "very seriously", and how "security is everybody's responsibility" were repeated ad nauseum.

What it really comes down to is this: nobody, apart from entry-level developers, in a (poorly-managed) big corporation goes into their end of year review and talks about how they fixed a bug someone else reported to them. It doesn't register as a blip on bullet-lists next to items like "did X, directly contributing to us shipping 3% more units", or "increased conversion rate by 6%". Their managers won't understand what patching a vulnerability means, but as soon as you start talking about how you're fixing security issues, suddenly you're responsible for everything that goes bad on that site. If someone on their side fixed the change-page-content vulnerability I reported, they'd be the one getting blamed if 6 months down the road someone stole their user emails. The goal of these managers -- indeed, how they reached their station in the first place -- is to minimize actual responsibility and risk, and maximize the amount of credit they receive for things they contributed very little to.

In Starbucks' case, anyone who responded by fixing the reported vulnerability would be at best ignored for it, and at worst punished. The people who go after that person who "hacked" their site _will_ be rewarded, so that's what they do. TL;DR Dilbert. It's depressing how much of dilbert is based on reality AFAIK most of what goes in there comes from letters to the author.

I've long stopped being depressed about it and see it as a cynical source of amusement. I'm convinced Dilbert works for the company I work for.  You nailed it!
&gt; The goal of these managers -- indeed, how they reached their station in the first place -- is to minimize actual responsibility and risk, and maximize the amount of credit they receive for things they contributed very little to.
 Somehow this explains a lot... My neighbouring team's manager is very good at this.  Anything outstanding is somebody else's responsibilities ("my understanding is so and so is working on it"), and anything done will be under his name ("so status update, I've gone and finished that thing you asked").  Even though the reality is completely reverse, nobody speaks up.

The injustice is sickening. I have great Team leader. He always takes all the blame. If any one from his team (us) fucks up. He always covers our assess. Of course he isn't "so nice" to us if we fuck up big time, but he covers all mistakes as result of a Team. He told us that as a Team we score as a team and we are getting punished as a team. And when there is really no single person to blame for mistake, upper management goes easy on us.
My English is not good enough to express my thought there. But I hope you know what I mean. Your English is fine; I understood everything! :) People are often afraid to speak up, because you can certainly make the liar look bad for taking undue credit, but the person who criticises them also looks like they're not a "team player" or are "being defensive" if they say anything. The people who sit back and let someone else speak up instead are the main ones who benefit. This is no longer true for many companies, which had to change policies after watching high profile breaches at many other companies which were really disastrous.

One of the fastest growing executive level services is security consulting and reporting. 5-10 years ago that used to be relegated to IT across the board, but today, many companies are increasing their emphasis on it higher on the chain.

The big service tends to be explaining things to an executive in a reasonable, clear, and accurate way. Most IT departments have people who can find breaches, but it's a separate skill entirely to be able to communicate and justify the gravity of the threat without using technical jargon to an executive. &gt; This is no longer true for many companies

Agreed.  I too work for a $100bn+ company and I know that although not *all* executives and upper level management "get it", there is a pretty strong security culture in most places and there is a lot of stuff that goes on to support secure development.

We regularly get "phishing" e-mails which, when people open them link them to internal anti-phishing and computer security training materials. These "attacks" are run by an external firm and help audit how effective the message and training on this stuff is (ditto for things like malicious MS Office files and such). Ever year there is mandatory on-line training stuff which covers handling types of data, the requirement to use Full-Disk-Encryption, how to report security incidents, how to securely exchange stuff with customers etc. etc.

A product team I was working with recently paid an external organisation for 20+ days worth of penetration testing / ethical hacking services. They pointed the group at the latest test servers of their code and said "do your best to hack it, steal data, inject rogue code, whatever - anything nefarious or malicious. Let us know what you find". This is apparently done for most (if not all?) of our companies SaaS product lines and probably the others too; although I don't know for sure since I don't work in development.

They run tools like Nessus over the infrastructure, AppScan over code and Acunetix+BurpSuite over front-end code. All tablets and mobile devices used for business use must have an MDM installed (Fireblink MaaS360) which enforces policy and encryption etc. All devices plugged into the internal network or connected via company WiFi must be registered before they can access anything beyond a firewalled-garden.

Its a sackable offence in our company for servers to be joined to the network which are not compliant with a list of security and configuration options. Likewise, failing to keep servers patched etc. will land you in hot water. I've seen our IT guys simply turn off the power to the network ports for (what were at the time 'critical') machines which were unpatched after a patching deadline, and refuse to allow them back on until they were patched. 

By no means are we perfect and there will always be flaws, but most people who work here are aware that we are and will remain a major target and take security seriously. This certainly includes most senior management and executives I've worked with. Even if they don't fully understand a given security issue, they won't just ignore it or brush it under the rug.

 As an internal test, I sent a phishing email from outside to all employees. It linked to "anti-phishing training" they needed to log in with their computer login info.  
I cried at the results. We had training several times, and always stress "never give your information out to any website- authorized resources will authenticate you automatically!" The site they logged in to was not even remotely like one of our internal info sites- they all have a standardized layout, header, and banner.  
People are stupid. These sorts of problems always occur when incentives are designed by the people who benefit from them...or when the people generating incentives are totally out of touch with the everyday operations and lowest level employees at a company.  It's usually a problem of size.  Know the average guy who calls the IT department at a corporation?  If they cant figure how to turn a computer on, do you think they know how amazing this find is other than to accuse him of such things?  Tech Illiterate idiot at corporate throwing lawyer words at him because he has no idea what this guy did other than what appears to him like a mugging.  And this is why people wont tell supermarkets that if you have a coupon on the self serve till you can scan it drop a peice of normal paper in the slot and scan another. Rinse and repeat.  
  
"A friend" once used a single 1 off coupon in ASDA and got 20 off their 20.50 shopping.  
  
My sign in code/password still works (I havnt worked their since 2006) So i can just sit their and enter my own prices all day long if i choose to do so.  
  
Helps when you get those fucking messages telling you there's something in the bag that shouldnt be there.  
  
EDIT: Edited Surely your sign in code and password is tied to their record of you working there? Aren't you basically admitting that you stole from them if someone were to check?  That's a pretty ballsy comment for someone posting under what looks like it could be a real name. Plot twist: James Trendall is actually the manager he hated at this supermarket. The whole strategy is pretty ballsy. After all, those login details will still be linked to his real name. My real name? Never why would anyone ever do that on the internet... Its full of sexy people that might try and stalk me.  
  
Unfortunately i havnt met any sexy single females willing to stalk me :( Just thanks and respect? It's a *huge* design flaw, reporting anything like this to a company that handled security vuln disclosures properly would net you $50k+ Corporations are people. People are stupid. People who give preferential rights to corporations are even stupider. But right now the stupids are in charge.

 Corporations are *made of* people, but are not people. That interpretation of the law is, and always will be, retarded. 

Edit: I can't assume that's what OP meant, but I insist that corporate personhood is as sound as Citizens United.  Obviously /u/mckulty wasn't talking about the legal definition of a corporation, but rather was making a point that decisions taken by corporations are not always their smartest or best move because it's people, prone to error, the ones who take the decisions. We really need some kind of whistleblower type protection for vulnerabilities in web sites. There is a strong public interest in disclosing vulnerabilities to web site owners, but the way cybercrime is set up, generating the evidence to confirm a vulnerability essentially requires incrimminating yourself. Without protections, the entire thing is counter productive: if disclosure is as risky or more risky than using the information criminally, people will choose to do the latter, either themselves or passively by just not disclosing the bugs so that black hats eventually discover them themselves. Hahaha! Whistleblowers have never been more prosecuted than they are today. Whistleblowers exist to protect consumers. I wonder why corporations would want to keep consumers in the dark...  
 Except this whistleblower was actually trying to protect Starbucks, which makes their reaction even more ludicrous. Thanks Obama.  Literally. Also thanks Putin, ironically.  Except, you know, if they're Russian whistleblowers Then America will harbor them. Isn't politics great? Relevant:
http://www.mattbors.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/1020.png Why would you harbor a corpse? for a fancy tea party. So you don't ruin your weekend at your bosses fancy beach house? Makes me sick.  I have stopped reporting vulnerabilities now as it is too risky. I've been a web developer for 13 years so sometimes it's obvious just from how a site behaves it's vulnerable but people never react well when you tell them and I've heard horror stories of people getting in trouble so the unfortunate truth is that a lot of vulnerabilities become well known and unreported. The one time I've ever reported something, I reported something small first, to gauge their reaction and attitude towards being constructively criticized. 

"Hi, I noticed you had typo on such-and-such page."

"Oh thanks so much! We've scheduled a fix for Monday. Thanks again!"

"Yeah, also your input validation is jacked up over here..." I used to get annoyed at peoples attitudes but I think I can sympathize.  For most people computer code and such is a mystery.  They know it exists, they know hackers exist but they don't really understand it (just watch TV shows depiction of hackers).  
I think it's akin to being on holiday and a stranger calling you to tell you the front door to your home is open and you should close.  There is no way to tell someone their website is vulnerable without implying the fact you know exactly how to exploit it.  I'd say 1 person in 10 is grateful, the other 9 panic and become suspiciois.  I've tried to help people and then every time their PC crashes for the next 5 years they think its me hacking them.  Now I just turn a blind eye unless they have an official reporting policy. My computer I'm reading your post on just glitched. Was....was that you? If you outlaw testing for vulnerabilities, only outlaws will test for vulnerabilities.  And only outlaws will find vulnerabilities, and only outlaws will heavily exploit and/or sell them. Excellent system guys! I have friends that are hired by companies to expose vulnerabilities in their systems, but if people do it for free and report to the company they are prosecuted? This is pretty much as stupid as it gets. Sounds like the perfect system for hackers.

Hack into a system, if you get caught, claim you were working on showing a vulnerability.

If you don't get caught, Profit!
 That's how bug bounties work. That's a tough situation.  I guess for after the hack, it would be easy enough to judge intent.  If someone does what this guy did, and "steals" $5 or whatever, then immediately tries to report it, you can see his intent was good, and he did not want to steal or cause problems.  If he had stolen a lot of $$ and didn't report it, it would be obvious that he's a bad guy.  

However, that doesn't work if someone is caught in the initial act. Without seeing what someone did once they broke in, there's no way to prove what they intended.  I suppose you could write a protective law in such a way that maybe you were allowed to pre-alert someone, and thus not be prosecuted unless you did cause damage.  As in "I think you could be vulnerable to this attack, so I'm going to try  it tomorrow, and if I find an exploit, I will not use it beyond the minimal amount necessary to prove it's existence."  
That might protect the good guys, and bad guys hopefully wouldn't use that, since if you truly are trying to steal something, you wouldn't want to alert them up front. I'm sorry, we can only see that you have hacked into our system, not what you have touched. Because of this, we are suing you for the cost of a complete rebuild of our system to prevent any future damage you may have caused Since the incident we've doubled our IT department, and that's on you too. I propose a blockchain like system where vulnerabilities are posted anonymously so that bad people can take advantage of said vulnerabilities until the responsible party fixes the problem.  This would eventually result in security teams constantly checking the blockchain to ensure their website/tech is secure.  And it should protect the reporting party.  Win win?  BTW keep the government out of it, they screw everything up.   Why a blockchain? That seems silly So you can prove it was you later down the road and still remain anonymous if you need. Alternatively you could create a new public/private keypair and sign all messages with that. But then you have the possibility of being tracked down through metadata. It's a real shame that some companies act like this. The proper approach is to offer cash rewards for those who find and report security issues like Google and various others do. I remember a few years ago some brony got multiple $50,000+ rewards from Google for finding exploits in Chrome. You have to wonder how much trouble and possible embarrassment Google avoided by investing in these types of programs. Smart. I'd wager another huge value to doing this is not having to pay another employee or contractor a 6 figure salary with full benefits. Why companies don't do this more amazes me. Often the people that are in positions of power in large companies are really just average people who have multiple degrees and had the right connections. They just might not be as smart as they should be.  not to mention it doesn't take any technological understanding to get to a lot of these administrative positions And for them way more importantly: How many exploits they discovered Confirmed the brony part: http://www.zdnet.com/article/teenager-hacks-google-chrome-with-three-0day-vulnerabilities/ Funny story; there is this cute little buffer overflow in all the Call of Duty games since MW2 due to the developers copypasting the code for each new game. Each year for about four years I've tried to tell them about it, hoping that they'll change their attitude since the game runs with elevated privileges and an attacker would get full control over the victims system.

Each time they just tell me to contact tech support, tech support forwards me to some senior tech support which basically says "we are tech support, we can't fix any bugs". When I explain the severity they just disconnect and ignore any further messages.

So a few months ago some, not necessarily bad, people in a steam/CoD modding group found out about it independently and used it to gain access to some server hosting company which let them leak a lot of files and debug symbols for some games.

Naturally Activision wasn't too happy about it and two months later they patched the most recent games. The slightly older titles like MW2 and MW3 are still vulnerable 5 months down the road. I've tried to tell them that it's not fixed yet but, like mentioned above, when disclosing information they just say that it's not their problem.

Speaking of Activision, do not try to help them, if you do then they'll send lawyers after you for violating their copyright rather than fixing it; http://puu.sh/hJyMj/af875ab002.png http://puu.sh/hSyDb/2213d71d9e.png &gt; it's not their problem.

I think this is modern capitalism coming around to bite them in the ass. The companies do nothing to foster employee morale anymore, since they've started treating us like we're interchangeable cogs in a vast machinery, so there's no incentive for us to care about the overall health of the company anymore. If I'm a tech support person working minimum wage, what the fuck do I care about a massive exploit like that? "I hate my boss, I hate my company, they refused my time off request last week so I could see my kids, fuck 'em. I'm not paid enough to care. This is someone else's problem. \*click\*." Well, I did ask them if they had an email for disclosing information about it properly as opposed to PMs on Reddit, Twitter and the like but there's apparently no email to contact them about anything not related to legal or press. Both of which will tell you to contact tech support by the way. That's the thing. Not a single person they expose to the outside world actually cares enough about the company to figure out what you're trying to tell them.  They are so fucking dumb. They could go forward with "we fixed several serious vulnerabilities that could target our precious clients. Aren't we a great people company?", but no. They just love being a rich, yet hated company I used to keep up with the CoD modding scene a lot a few years back, saw quite a few posts of the cease and desist letters Activision would send out to the guys finding exploits. It's sad knowing how much these guys could help make CoD safer and more stable yet ATVI just says "fuck you" No good deed goes unpunished. I reported something to United that was outside the scope of the bug bounty program.  Let's see how they reward me... I'm thinking special freedom pat downs. Maybe with some upgraded cavity searches Free trip to Cuba! TSA sexy time. I hope Starbucks has a good IT team, because everyone with a bit of computer knowledge is about to comb through their shit until they find something worth exploiting.
  
Ide pay good money to watch Starbucks scramble around like little girls. They got into trouble a little while ago with their mobile app not encrypting passwords or something like that. Doesn't seem like their IT team is very good for such a huge franchise. :/ They probably outsourced their mobile app, as well as their website / gift card system. outsourced to the cheapest bidder ftw. It never ends up cheaper where I work. We end up having to fix/finish what the offshore team doesn't have ready in time. Getting them to work is bad enough. You have to specify every little detail in your design plan to them or else they won't do it or mess it up.  It's like trying to make a wish on a monkeys paw. So many unintended consequences Get out of here with your ideas. You're not a business guy. You're "just a developer"

-Management Yay business If your company is run by people who only see IT as lost money, then your company is going to use crappy IT solutions. A lot of companies see IT as a "non-revenue generating" department and will cut IT to the bone because of it.

 Exactly.

And this is the wrong way of looking at it - if your IT department doesn't generate revenue, it's a loss-prevention department. The company's legal department is a non-revenue generating department as well, but in reality it too is a loss-prevention department. Well..

Some companies use their legal department to generate revenue.  Especially tech companies. As a fellow IT person, I feel bad for their IT department. Some fucking corporate, softheaded moron probably made this decision and they will pay the price/be fired when shit turns bad. Don't worry, I'm sure everyone on the Starbucks dev team is just as pissed off about this.  It's the people in the departments between that screwed this one up. This was released on netsec already, this shit happens all the time. they're not gunna be running about. Just another day in IT. This is another one of many 'Shoot the messenger' responses from corporate closed mind thinking. "We can do no wrong, therefore by discovering that we did something wrong, since it cannot be us that did something wrong, it absolutely must be you. And you must be punished for catching us." well only more reason to never say anything and just use it for life :D The man in the story finally learned that being honest once you are an adult is the stupid thing to do. I'm confused.  The author said that, after his successful exploit, he had $20 on 2 gift cards - 1 with $5 and 1 with $15.  However, he then used both cards to make a purchase of $16.70, leaving a balance of $5.70.  The receipt shows that the sbux card ending in 3203 was charged $14.68, leaving a balance of $0.00.  The sbux card ending in 6075 was charged $2.02, leaving a balance of $5.70.  This means he actually had an initial balance (between the 2 cards) of $22.40.  In my mind, this puts the authors entire story in doubt.  Perhaps I am missing something? this should be higher. math doesn't check out. Something similar actually happened at one of the colleges in my city, although it was even more dangerous since it could result in identity theft of students rather than just ripping starbucks off. 

A student noticed a bug in the online portal system of the college and was trying to let them know that you could log into anyone's account without a password if you knew their student ID. He reported it to the college and they said they'd take care of it and for him not to do it again. He never got confirmation that the problem was resolved and weeks had gone by. He used a friends student ID to test it and of course, the bug was still there. He went back to pressure them to fix it since the identity of all students was at risk (information like credit cards are saved to pay for student fees and the school has your social insurance number). 

How did they repay him? He was expelled. Could no longer attend any colleges and his dreams of university were shattered for caring about other people. And this isn't even a business corporation, it's a fucking educational institution discouraging these kind of actions. Bunch of bullshit.  From my experience, colleges are virtually indistinguishable from business corporations, at least in the way they are run and how they treat their clientele. Wow that's ridiculous. Had the same thing happen to me with 2 separate incidents.

Customer was bragging about security in their current system and verbally challeged us to break in. We accepted the challenge figuring it would score us potential work. After successfully breaking in we were subjected to legal threats.. And didn't get the work anyway.

In an unrelated incident, we found an obvious security hole in consumer site. We did a small, harmless change to their Database and immediately called their IT and explained the small change we were able to do as well as describing mitigation. Instead of a thank you, we got legal threats and anger. A month later, their site was completely defaced - not us. 

I guess the (cynical) lesson is: if you see someone has left their door wide open, don't get involved.  [deleted] I'm fucking tired of this shit.

People finding mistakes that other people make, and letting them know it could potentially cause a huge problem, but then getting fined or jailed.

People making projects to extend the functionality of devices that we purchase, but that's not how the manufactures see it and fines and jail time happen again.

Let's just stop fucking helping these companies out. Start exploiting them. Fuck them them, they are going to fine and jail you anyways, why not make some put-away-profit? &gt; Fuck them them, they are going to fine and jail you anyways, why not make some put-away-profit?

Yup, seems like the future.
 Lesson here, if you find a vulnerability in a company, instead of reporting it to the company, and being accused of maliciousness, release the information on 4chan... Apparently he is a talented hacker that would know what to do.  There's no proof that this guy got that response from Starbucks, only a link to some random blog. Thanks I was starting to think I looked at the wrong article or something.  He barely mentions his interaction with Starbucks. Because I don't think he intended for this to blow up to this extent. It was just a cool exploit that he wanted to share and someone posted it on /r/netsec, it wasn't meant to be about Starbucks' response. Too late, I already got out my pitch fork.  "I'm sorry sir, you left your car unlocked"

"OMG you are one of those people who look for unlocked cars! THIEF! THIEF! ARREST HIM!" Have *any* of these stories *ever* gone the other way? I've been hearing this since at least the early 1990's.

Note to companies, I *promise* I will *never* disclose *any* bug I find in *any* system of yours; I'll just quietly reap the benefits. There was a guy called Barnaby Jack, he used to be a hacker but became a white hat and worked for a large security company, he discovered flaws in systems then his company would approach them and "sell" the fix to them, he's the guy that hacked atm's. He also hacked cars and pacemakers, which just as he was about to reveal how it was done died... cause is still said to be "drug cocktail".. http://rt.com/usa/hacker-pacemaker-barnaby-jack-639/
 Guess we have another reason to never buy from Starbucks. When you treat people who behave responsibly like this, you incentivize irresponsible behavior and whether or not businesses like to believe it, they still have a responsibility to the public. Hey, remember when they wanted employees to talk to customers about social issues? That was a thing? [Source](https://news.starbucks.com/news/what-race-together-means-for-starbucks-partners-and-customers)

Excerpt:

&gt; Given their willingness to discuss race relations, many partners wanted to begin conversations with their customers too. Partners in New York, Chicago, St. Louis, Oakland and Los Angeles have voluntarily begun writing Race Together on Starbucks cups. Partners in all Starbucks stores in the U.S. will join them today. Partners in Starbucks stores may also engage customers in conversation through Race Together stickers available in select stores, and a special USA Today newspaper section arriving in stores later this week. If we get this enough attention then Starbucks will reverse course,  admit that it was a mistake, etc etc etc.. rinse and repeat. And then people wonder why people nowadays are so reluctant to intervene when they see something wrong, either a mugging, or car accident, or even something like this.  How many time the person trying to help ends up getting blamed or sued for his/her efforts The more experience I gather, the more I understand how much of a mixed bag database transactions are. Even if your interface is single-threaded, you still have to lock the table lest someone change it mid-way. Locking an individual row means that you can't query the table because you can't determine if the locked row is or isn't a part of your query. And until the insert/update/goddamn read is done, and every other process including reads all have to wait.

To make matters worse, vulnerabilities such as this wouldn't be so bad if you could use defined functions / procedures to automate entire processes, i.e. "Lock tables, check available balance, reduce balance, add balance to other card, unlock tables." Unfortunately SQL is so poorly optimized in terms of conditionals and switches at the like that a simple transaction like that could take several seconds, where if you only use it for the queries and rely on another technology for the conditionals, it'll be done in milliseconds. So you're left with a Sophie's choice of sorts: You can have a fast system with a major vulnerability, or you can have a system too slow to be used but protected from a major and easy exploit.

I suppose this is why DBAs make big bucks, though I'd need a few more years under my belt before I could ever apply to be one. DBA here. Race conditions like this one CAN be dealt with, but it requires more effort and sometimes corporate just wants a system that's "good enough", then it goes live and everyone forgets about it. Doesn't matter what's technically possible. It's about getting justification to spend more time and money doing it "right". IT guys like us want to do it right, but that means a 15 month project might instead take 20 months. That doesn't always sell.  I love this guy. He is moderately known for finding bugs like this. He once found a vulnerability in software used by github (a popular source code repository), every super-star coder ignored him. A month later he showed it was not a joke (demoed on github) and got his account suspended. Man, he wants to be a security guy, not a hacker, but to this day all he got is a notion of a "malicious user". "Well fine. Next time, I'll just go and exploit the bug, and tell others how to exploit it." Time to show the vulnerability to the public then. You tried to do the right thing. Now it is time to force them to do the right thing. Let's clarify something...Starbucks did not officially threaten the guy, the IT employee did. I bet if the higher ups heard about this (which presumably they haven't), they may have been more thankful. I mean, the employee was in it, not or...and he'd just been shown up by some random person off the street.  &gt; Starbucks did not officially threaten the guy, the IT employee did. 

How do you know it's an IT employee?

&gt; The unpleasant part is a guy from Starbucks calling me with nothing like thanks but mentioning fraud and malicious actions instead.

How you jumped from "*a guy from Starbucks*" to "*the IT employee*" is beyond me. I'll go ahead and say it...

How do you know he was told anything at all?

At any rate, it's a pretty good guess that it was an IT employee given that he had been trying to contact someone in their IT or InfoSec areas and given how hard it was, it probably didn't get up to anyone higher than IT.

I trust the guy was told what he was told, but on the other hand it's a stretch to say that it's Starbucks corporate policy and that it was signed off on as a strategy by the CEO. Folks, never do this. It seems like reporting vulnerabilities like this is the right thing to do, but I've never, ever seen it result in anything other than trouble for the person reporting it. They either get sued, have charges pressed against them, or both. It's not worth it.

A security vulnerability in a company's website or other publicly exposed system, unless you work for that company, is not your problem. Just take any necessary measures to ensure that you aren't affected by it personally and move on. Nobody gets a gold star for calling these things out. I had something similar happen once. Me and my girlfriend had a kitty follow us walking home from the grocery store. Later we noticed a flyer posted for a lost cat, sure enough it was him. So we call the woman and tell her we have her cat and to come get it. After she shows up, she starts accusing us of stealing her cat for a reward. We told her to take her cat and her reward, and stick it up her fat ass! No gratitude at all. Corporations need a formal process documented for the public for things like this, and incentives, like Google for example. Unfortunately, that's not the case for many. 

So much hate!  I read about this last night in /r/hacking, before it got cool in tech.  Yes, it took Starbucks a couple weeks to figure it out, but OP had the right intentions and had to work through some (too much) corporate bullshit. The fact does remain that he did steal from them, to prove the exploit... Which puts him in a tough situation. If it were me, I'd share with SBux anonymously. My value is my earning potential, not some bounty, and sharing this would put me at a lot of risk. Potential to help increase my earning potential, but potential to damage that ability completely. 

All in all, Starbucks didn't press charges or anything like that, which, IMO, is the best possible outcome for OP...  

Tldr:  Sbuxs wasn't evil in this case. Shitty day to be a white-hat.  Can someone ELI12 regarding what he did and why it worked? The classic example is a bank account.

Person A has $100, and wants to double their money. The way the bank software runs is to check the remaining balance in the account that wants to make the transfer, then if that amount is greater than (or equal to) the amount requested, to make the transfer.

So the guy opens the Bank of Whatever website twice, logs into his account twice, and fires off two transfers at the exact same time. In this case (where the system is vulnerable) there's no synchronization between the two transfers. So here's what happens most of the time:

Transfer 1 checks balance

Transfer 1 confirms balance &gt;= transfer request

Transfer 1 completes transfer

Transfer 2 checks balance

Transfer 2 confirms balance &lt; transfer amount

Transfer 2 cancels

BUT sometimes these actions, however fast they happen, can overlap when you don't protect against it. And so you get...

Transfer 1 checks balance

Transfer 1 confirms balance &gt;= transfer request

Transfer 2 checks balance

Transfer 2 confirms balance &gt;= transfer request

Transfer 1 completes transfer

Transfer 2 completes transfer

Basically, the simultaneous transfers confirm that they *can* be done, then each fire off, and you end up with an account that had $100 in it making two different $100 transfers to account 2. 

Ideally, at the end of the day, you'd also have an account 1 with -$100 in it setting up a bit of a red flag and making the whole thing kind of a wash. I can't actually say if most systems are set up such that that would be a realistic outcome. But in Starbucks case it seems that each transfer recorded the remaining amount in the account before hand, modified that number, and then sent it back into the account, leaving a $0 balance instead of a negative. "leaving a $0 balance instead of a negative."

If the cards are not linked to a personal account, as they don't seem to be, then it doesn't even matter if they end up with a negative balance, there would be no (easy) way for Starbucks to find you in order to reclaim it. True for that particular case. Starbucks seems to have really hit the sweet spot for "hugely exploitable" and "completely unaccountable" The gist is that when two requests to transfer money are submitted, the system sees money available and commits to transferring it for both transactions *before* either transfer is completed. It sees money, decides that it's OK to transfer, sees money, decides that it's OK to transfer, transfers, and then transfers again. Repeat ad infinitum until you have billion-dollar Starbucks card.


Say I start with two cards, Card A with $5 and Card B with $0. Bold fold being me and italics being their card system.

**Send $5 from A to B.** **Send $5 from A to B.** (rapid succession so the requests arrive at roughly the same time)

*OK, I'll check how much money is on A. Good, I see $5 available on A! Start the transfer process...*

*OK, I'll check how much money is on A. Good, I see $5 available on A! Start the transfer process...*

*I'm reducing A by $5.*

*I'm reducing A by $5... error, couldn't reduce A by $5.*

*I'm increasing B by $5.*

*I'm increasing B by $5.*

*I'm done adding $5 to B.*

*I'm done adding $5 to B.*

**Tell me how much money is on A.**

*OK, I'll check how much money is on A. There is no money on A.*

**Tell me how much money is on B.**

*OK, I'll check how much money is on B. There is $10 on card B.*


The actual specifics can get a bit tangled in terms of what happens first and whether the system should continue on or not after it tried to reduce A by $5 and couldn't... but that's for the IT team to build and fix. Competing actions carried out at the same time or in such quick succession that the system doesn't know one or more is invalid. I may be missing something but these numbers dont seem to add up. 
He has two cards, one card with $15 and one card with $5 ($20 in total)
His purchase adds up to $16.70
The first card (3203) is charged: $14.68.
The second card (6075) is charged: $2.02
Making the total payment, spread across both cards: $16.70
The balance shown for card 3203 is $0. If its original value was $15 why is the remaining balance $0?
The balance shown for card 6075 is $5.70. If the original value was $5 (and the card was charged $2.02) how can it have $5.70 remaining?
 This ain't no place for no hero. This ain't no place for no better man. This ain't no place for no hero. To call "home". I'm so happy I work for a tiny consulting company instead of the corporations I used to work for. I still consult for big companies, so I get a taste of it, but then I can go back to my office and get real, meaningful work done. I don't think I can ever go back to a corporation. I'm sure this won't end up like CBS/CNET, right? /s (If you're not familiar, CNET used to award official Best of CES awards for new tech products. I say used to because CES stripped them of their ability to use the CES logo after CNET's parent company, CBS, forced CNET to retract the award they gave to Dish's Hopper DVR (which has a commercial autoskip feature they hate).

(... so many Cs...) Honestly all tech journalism outlets suck ass. It speaks volumes when the best consumer product reviews by far come from a college student on Youtube. [deleted] Let your hole be whole and it will fill itself. Who is the author of that comic?  So you are saying that Ars Technica is still a good site? What channel are you referring to, by chance? Marques Brownlee I would assume. Link to his [channel](https://www.youtube.com/user/marquesbrownlee) Yep. The best. Thorough, objective, doesn't treat the viewer like a moron, well made. Great stuff. that dude is the man Not a college student anymore though! He is until the 22nd IIRC! ;) I hope he starts his own tech thing and not go join a company  If he starts a formal tech news agency like the Verge it would be my new main channel for tech journalism honestly. ...Until it gets bought by another corporation. MKBHD or whaddyacallim for example for smartphones  He does reviews for anything. Just most people tend to like his smartphone reviews. He's done headphones and video game consoles in the past. Smartphones though I think are his forte. I'd like to see more audio equipment reviews from him though. I like Anandtech for smartphones.

Really good at showing specs and specifics. Except he is a little biased. Especially against Sony. And he's featured on The Verge a lot. 

Lisa from Mobile Tech Review is my favorite. Most likely mkbhd Linus Tech Tips He taught me to pick up expensive things with one hand Did you also take Dropping expensive shit 101 with Prof. Sebastian? Not a college student, therefore not what he was referring to, but yes, Linus Media Group makes some great content. He graduated now Agree with this 100%.  However, the tech media outlets like Engadget get early impressions on new techs before release.  But I do trust some YouTube reviewers more for comprehensive reviews which typically are not available on release. This is going to be the future of media, I think. We won't go to big name sources for product reviews, we'll find an unbiased YouTuber to give us their take. But then they get big and end up corrupted and co-opted also. Look at things like Tested, some of the things they test are in reality paid adverts in disguise. Maybe all but I know one area for sure is:

My hobby is "drones" and at least in that area Tested have sold out completely and never disclose things are paid ads and not reviews.
 
Youtube has a reputation for some honest reviewers, money however will change that and already is.
 It'll just be a never-ending cycle then, won't it? Once a big youtuber gets corrupted, another youtuber who has been putting out quality, un-biased comment will get viewers. Seriously, I go to tech sites for specs and pictures. Youtube for the honesty. Marques is good if you only care about phones. I hope that he branches out more now that he's graduated and will have more time to work on his channel. I've pretty much stopped watching him for now because I've grown pretty bored of the cell phone market.  there are still a few good ones, arstechnica still has some the most in depth and unbiased reviews you can get and theverge has a good video team for their reviews but has leaning more to general tech/ entertainment type features of late. Engadget has made a huge comeback recently as well in terms of quality. But yeah some of these YouTubers are just kicking ass at tech coverage these days. Or a former soldier who knows a lot, also on the Tube I like anandtech I used to LOVE CNET back in the day. Now I'm afraid to even visit their website without getting some malware or other virus. So true.  Used to watch the cnet television shows religiously as a 90s kid. Collection of Cunts.  Fuckin' CNET...why did they destroy that place? It used to be such a good resource for information and downloads--now you can't download anything without it being loaded with spyware and the info and "reviews" are complete BS. This needs more attention.  Endgadget is saying that nothing will change with their editorials, however, judging by Verizon's history of mistreating their customers, I have a hard time believing that Endgadget will remain impartial.  I'd put it at 0%. &gt; (which has a commercial autoskip feature they hate).

They were also in a lawsuit with Dish over the Hopper at the time, it's not just that they didn't like it. I don't think that really makes it much better, but it wasn't just that they didn't like it. This shouldn't be allowed any more than the Comcast acquisition of NBC Universal should have been. We need to be actively breaking up these enormous telecom companies *not* allowing them to infect every facet of our lives. They are not the same industry so there is no precedent to stop it using anti-trust laws, AFAIK.  What about [United States v. Paramount Pictures, Inc.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_v._Paramount_Pictures,_Inc.)? Movie studios used to own cinemas and carmakers used to own car-dealers and both of these were broken up by the US government.

Allowing a company to both own the medium and the producers of the content delivered through the medium seems like a similar issue. (At least to an outside not well versed in the finer details of the law.) [The name of the game these days](http://ablmedia.blogspot.com/2012/11/vertical-integration-in-warner-bros.html) is "[Vertical Integration](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vertical_integration)".

Corporations have spent billions of dollars since 1948 lobbying specifically to have those kind of consumer protections deregulated, cut out, and removed. [Every time I hear those words this is what I think of](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZZ7oht6TD9c&amp;ab_channel=MatthewBirnholz) Well now we have members of Congress who are in the pockets of others. If only we had some form of lawmakers that wasn't owned by the same companies that are seeking to censor the public ability to know about their own  behavior... /r/SandersForPresident Presidents aren't lawmakers. They pick the supreme court judges..... thats debatably the most important power No, but they DO hold the bully pulpit. That itself wields tremendous influence and leverage against congress to get them to do what the people want. Whether it's Bernie or someone else, we need a 21st Century Teddy Roosevelt. We need a trust buster to break giant companies that are taking advantage of their position.  Roosevelt 2016! I'll grab the necromancers.  Actually, research shows that presidents do not have much sway when it comes to influencing policy.  A president giving a speech which endorses a policy generally tends to simply polarize the opposition, and no president in recent times (going back at least as far as Reagan) has actually successfully won support for a course of action by giving a speech or speeches- including some things which were previously relatively no-brainer bipartisan-supported concepts- even amongst the public.  &gt; Actually, research shows that presidents do not have much sway when it comes to influencing policy.

And yet, some of the most important pieces of legislation of the past century had their genesis in Presidential initiatives.  The Civil Rights Act came out of Johnson's Great Society.  Social Security, the minimum wage, and many labor protection laws had their birth thanks to Roosevelt's New Deal.

Bush pushed through No Child Left Behind, and Obama backed Common Core.  Whether good or bad, there's no doubt both policies are extremely influential in the lives of students.

And then of course there is the ACA, the recent wars (though perhaps you were not including foreign policy), and things related to defense/security, such as the creation of DHS, NSA spying, etc.  It seems to me Bush (and Cheney) and Obama has a lot of influence in directing the policies in these areas. Primarily the past century.  Johnson and Roosevelt are examples of success, and JFK's trip to the moon was another.  The ACA was squeaked in because democrats had majorities in congress and the white house.  

No Child Left Behind and Common Core were both conceived separately from the presidents, and the presidents came out backing them mostly after the fact- and Common Core was implemented by the department of education- I don't believe there was a bill passed to implement it; some aspects of it ride on legislation that was passed as part of NCLB.

I was generally leaving Foreign Policy out of the mix.  The NSA programs were fired up by secret presidential order, and not "authorized" by congress until years after their existence.  The DHS was created nearly immediately in the aftermath of Sept 11th, which was a rather extraordinary event.   &gt; The ACA was squeaked in because democrats had majorities in congress and the white house.

Sure.  But it wouldn't have passed at all without the President pushing it.

&gt; I don't believe there was a bill passed to implement it;

I wasn't going to include those, but your post specifically said "policy."  I know this kicked off with someone saying "Presidents don't make laws" but I think my point is that that is a naive way to look at it.  Presidents use their power and influence to get laws passed, and shape/enact policy in a lot of other ways that don't require the passage of legislation (see: Executive Orders).
 Not sure on downvotes, but presidents have very little real power if they don't have congress and the senate Hopefully a president could apply some pressure to congress at least.  A president also holds sway over public opinion to some degree, and could do some serious work to push corrupt politicians out of office if motivated enough. He is until he's elected. Correct and given the stranglehold money has on congress, our only defense is a veto pen dedicated to the people, not corporations. They can veto stuff. Your comment has been linked to the following places:

* [[/r/Circlejerk] BERNIE SANDERS FOR PRESIDENT](http://np.reddit.com/r/circlejerk) There might not be any precedent, but a telecom provider owning a media corporation that delivers its content over the the system run by its owner seems like a clear case of vertical integration to me.

Edit: The situation isn't wholly without precedent either, in [*United States v. Paramount Pictures, Inc.*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_v._Paramount_Pictures,_Inc.), the supreme court ruled that Hollywood movie studios couldn't own the movie theaters where their products were shown, because it allowed them to choke out competition by refusing to show films by smaller, independent studios. While the new Net Neutrality regulations should (in theory) prevent Verizon from doing something to what Paramount tried in the '40s, it seems like a really similar situation, just in reverse (the content deliverer owning the content producer rather than the content producer owning the delivery mechanism). I studied biochemistry, not law, but to me cases like this merger (and the Comcast acquisition of NBC-Universal) seem like clear examples of the kind of vertical integration that should attract serious anti-trust regulation. Verizon has an ISP (FiOS, and the case can be made for Verizon Wireless), and AOL has an ISP... Why aren't they in the same industry? AOL's main business is not being an ISP. I seriously doubt Verizon is trying to corner the marker on people who are still using AOL as their ISP Yes, but few understand that this sort of thing has been going on as long as there has been a media. Around 1900 muckraking magazines were being bought up or forced out of business (like being refused paper stock).
The idea that reporters are free spirits is rather quaint. 

The free press is free for those that own one. Exactly.

  I wonder the percentage of folks in this thread that have even heard of yellow journalism. 

Things aren't perfect but my god are they better than they used to be. 

 Kind of. I mean yellow journalism has gotten a lot worse lately. But how do you go about disallowing this? I don't like this deal, but you can't just restrict Verizon from buying anything, or you have to disallow all the big companies from buying other companies. And that would not be entirely good either. 

With social media and skillful reporters I have faith that the ones that are silenced could easily get viral and new jobs at a different company all while getting bad publicity to Verizon.  So google should be broken up to then? Since it controls search advertising, content (YouTube) and is also now an ISP / telecom operator?  Google has better PR Damn right they do. I love google stuff but I completely know that they are skynet. They are completely against any form of competition and do everything they can to prevent it. But they also hire some of the smartest people on the planet and give them the freedom to build the future.

Not a bad deal for humanity...

... So far lol Yeah I'm just worried of when it becomes self aware.  I love their stuff, just when you look at all they control it can be scary. Google and Microsoft give us tools so that we all may control the world Big media companies have had a taste of what it's like to lose total control of information since the adoption of the internet and the decline of everyone's favorite passive media, television. It's only natural that they'd try to lock it up again. AOL also owns the Huffington Post 

In other news, Verizon is buying a rotten ham sandwich. Many worry that Verizon's purchase will decrease the quality of the sandwich. What people don't realize is that HuffingtonPost is the [3rd most popular news website, with over 100 million unique monthly visitors](http://www.ebizmba.com/articles/news-websites). Controlling a media network with that many readers, that's like playing with fire. It's the most popular news-only website. 

Google and Yahoo don't really count here.  Google News and Yahoo News are news-only. Arguably Google News shouldn't count because it's a news aggregator, though. I've been off AOL hosted content for years. They have already axed many quality sites they bought and treat their employees badly. This should be a nail in the coffin for everyone else. There are many news alternatives out there, AOL and Gawker aren't the only game in town. A few years ago I found out my dad was still paying $10 a month for his AOL email account. A good chunk of their profit is from scamming old people who think they need to pay for email. 

I feel like their practices are right on the border of fraud. [In a tweet](https://twitter.com/kleinmatic/status/598103897710919681) someone just described Verizon as "another old person tricked into buying AOL so they can connect to the Internet." It's funny that you say that.  This morning CNBC happened to be on and they were talking about this.  Jim Kramer was like "I have an aol subscription in case my other access goes down." and then in his next breather said how, "AOL is not for old people, it's got a young audience."

It had me laughing so hard but then I wondered if he was more of an idiot or a crook. Every time I hear their story I want find their dial up datacenters and burn them down. It is always sad to see so many people using AoL because it is their "internet". There are still plenty of areas which have no access to DSL or cable internet.  As much as their "email" business is a scam, dial-up is still a necessary option for a segment of our country... thanks to the disinterest of Verizon and others in building out further infrastructure. I can understand dial up being required in certain areas due to ISPs but the AOL situation is different.

 Ask any tech that you know that performs in home service and their stories of AOL are the same. It's not that dial up is bad, it's that they are operating in a grey area by charging people who don't know better for service, mostly consisting of the elderly. They make it very difficult to cancel their service, even when it is not in use of available.

Feel free to google it, there is plenty of info out there. &gt; They make it very difficult to cancel their service

Not like any other ISP's out there make it easy to cancel. Comcast and basically every ISP, I'm looking at you... &gt;As much as their "email" business is a scam, dial-up is still a necessary option for a segment of our country...

Exactly.  There are still a few million people in the US for where traditional broadband options either don't exist or are absurdly expensive.  They kinda get missed in the whole talk about when will there be cheap &gt;100Mbit/sec or even Gbit/sec connections. how did that pan out with pops? I convinced him to get rid of it, thankfully Awesome, Dan. "I don't trust Google."  
"But you trust AOL?"  
"..." It'd be appreciable if you name them, the sites you use as alternative?  Maybe they will bring back winamp.


It really whips, the llama's ass!



edit:

waaaait. Winamp.com:

"THERE'S MORE

COMING SOON" Winamp was the *first* thing I thought about when I saw the title. AOL closed Winamp last year, and then it was sold to an outside company. AOL no longer controls Winamp, thankfully. Wah-csh wah-csh wa-csh, from every direction. Winamp was [sold last year](http://techcrunch.com/2014/01/14/aol-sells-winamp-and-shoutcast-for-5-10m-to-radionomy-takes-12-stake-in-belgian-digital-audio-company/). Aol came out and said  they were  going to shut it down. Then when it came near the date for  shut down, whoops  we sold it. You can still download it, i think a new version is in the works. The download page used to goto a forum post with the last version and  a stay tuned message Here's what I've got: http://imgur.com/YKw9ZcA

[And you can grab it from FileHippo.](http://filehippo.com/download_winamp) Winamp was acquired by Radionomy a year or two back when AOL decided to shut it down. That's the first time I've ever seen an appropriate use of an inappropriate comma.  Milk Drop was the shit! Already doing it! &gt;&gt;&gt; [Tramp Stamp](http://i.imgur.com/gi5CAvw.jpg) Still is!  You can even ram it into foobar2000! Unfortunately it really got to be a mess in the end. If it came back, I would hope it's in name only and rebuilt from the ground up. Dear Verizon. I don't want you buying old shit-tech companies, I want cheaper service.
     
Oh, and fuck you. I'm leaving for T-Mob when my contract is done. Tmobile will pay up to 650 per line for phone payments and etf fees, so why wait? Current iPhones don't support LTE band 12, which is what T-Mobile is using to expand its network. I'm holding out for the iPhone 6S with hopes that it will support LTE 12. Until then, its Verizon for me. Begrudgingly.  Depends on your location. The majority of T-mobile LTE is AWS band 4 (1700/2100), which is supported by current iPhones.  Yep, but the major 2G -&gt; 4G conversion project is LTE-12 only. I REALLY want access to that additional coverage. I'm glad I read this, I was just about to pull the trigger on my company moving to T-Mobile, might want to slow it down a bit... [There are options](http://www.t-mobile.com/optional-services/coverage-phones-700.html) if you're willing to use non-iOS devices.

I really like the iPhone, though, so it makes sense for me to wait. I'm totally willing, however my end users are not. How does that really effect your decision? If you have an iPhone on Verizon already then use it on T-Mobile. It won't support band 12 but have they even deployed any band 12 yet? 

If you are thinking you have to trade in your iPhone for the ETF payoff deal: you don't. You have to trade A phone in. It can be a $20 used shitter. You can then buy the new iPhone whenver it is released and sell your current one for market value. [Within the next few months, all of T-Mobile's former 2G-only locations will be upgraded to LTE on band 12](https://gigaom.com/2014/03/13/t-mobile-plans-to-upgrade-its-2g-edge-footprint-to-4g-lte-by-mid-2015/). That's basically all T-Mobile areas outside of major cities. I live in NYC, but I want consistent connectivity when I travel.

If I switch to TMO now with my current iPhone 5S, I won't be able to access that band between now and October, when I'm hoping an iPhone with LTE-12 support will be released. If I switch to TMO now and buy and iPhone 6 using TMO financing, I won't be able to access that band 1-2 years, or whenever I pay off the 6. I tried switching, entered the contract and everything only to be told that they couldn't transfer my number. I was told it would all work, but when the technicians actually tried to transfer my number from Verizon they discovered they couldn't do it. Something about not supporting the prefix in the region I live in now. Not the area code, but the next 3 digits. xxx-XXX-xxxx Apparently what I got in Iowa 7 years ago can't be transferred to Texas because those three digits aren't supported in this area.

Ended up costing me almost 500 dollars in service and cancellation fee costs for a line I never even used. I went from Verizon to T Mobile.   I CANNOT BE HAPPIER.  I used almost 19 gogs of data this month.   All 4g and no throttling all at one flat rate. Gogs of data...I like that! Great festering gogs of data. Should be part of their marketing, really. I don't think you understand Verizons business model... it's a premium telecommunication provider. They never claim to be the cheapest or want to be. They want to be the best &gt; They want to be the best

Only if you value coverage area above all else. Is there a more important criteria for a mobile phone?  Without coverage it's an expensive paperweight. I've been pretty content with tmo's coverage, and I love their music freedom program, data caching program, their customer service,  and being generally contract-free. I can't say I was ever even close to content with VZW, and even with a huge company discount I was paying about 33% more.

I'm happy with tmo Premium schmemium. Having the fastest, widest network is great, but in the last couple years they introduced a "loyalty points" program and now this. I've been with Verizon since they were friggin **Airtouch** but LOL fuck no more. &gt; loyalty points

Fuck this. If you're going to "reward" me for paying my fucking bill, just fucking lower my bill.
 Not to sound like a corporate shill, but TMobile is literally having a promotion for Verizon customers starting tomorrow. Free trial of TMobile service for two weeks, and then if you decide to make the switch, they pay your ETF and other Verizon costs. Interesting. It is sold for $4.4 billion. The last time AOL merged with Time Warner it was valued ~$166 billion. I guess this is what happens when you continually buy companies and then try to "monetize" the customer base without attempting to add any additional value.

Its a good thing its easy to start up new blogs. Every time one joins the AOL family, I just black list it and start searching for better alternatives. AOL purchased Time Warner. Not the other way around. 

The new AOL/Time Warner then later spun off AOL-as-an-ISP. 

The Time Warner company you see today is decended the old school AOL. Confusing huh?

Saying that the value decreased is a little incorrect here.

Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_Warner#AOL_Time_Warner_merger

 So, this makes me wonder...who own's Reddit? Conde Nast. Supposedly they're mostly hands off. They also own Ars Technica and a few other places. Actually reddit is a privately owned company. The largest single shareholder is Advance Publications, who also own Conde Nast. Other large shareholders include Snoop Dogg and Jared Leto (I'm not making this up: http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/10/01/with-reddit-deal-snoop-dogg-moonlights-as-a-tech-investor). So thats why he is so active on reddit! I think it's the other way around. Snoop was active on reddit and saw the value so he decided to invest. He just became an investor in the last round of funding. Hmm, maybe I should become an investor.... Reddit might be fun to use, but I'm a bit skeptical about the ROI...it is basically running on donations and dies all the time... Death is permanent. I prefer to think of it as taking the occasional nap.  How can I find his posts?  /u/Here_Comes_The_King All hail our feudal overlord! /u/Here_Comes_The_King
 &gt;Conde Nast

I spent way too long trying to find an anagram for Comcast I red Ars Techncia a lot. I find it very interesting, well written and generally, well done.

I read Huff Post now and then. It seems to have degraded into entertainment rumors and Oprah-esque drama. A shame, really. &gt; I read Huff Post now and then. It seems to have degraded into entertainment rumors and Oprah-esque drama. A shame, really.

Does Arianna still run that website? It used to be somewhat interesting (albeit quite biased), but since AOL bought it, it is like it turned into political TMZ. "political TMZ" - Quite an apt description of it at this point.

It seems she is still active on and running the site:

&gt;Arianna Huffington is the chair, president, and editor-in-chief of the Huffington Post Media Group, and author of fourteen books.

In May 2005, she launched The Huffington Post, a news and blog site that quickly became one of the most widely-read, linked to, and frequently-cited media brands on the Internet. In 2012, the site won a Pulitzer Prize for national reporting.

She has been named to Time Magazine's list of the worlds 100 most influential people and the Forbes Most Powerful Women list. Originally from Greece, she moved to England when she was 16 and graduated from Cambridge University with an M.A. in economics. At 21, she became president of the famed debating society, the Cambridge Union.

She serves on several boards, including The Center for Public Integrity; The Committee to Protect Journalists; HuffPost's partner in Spain, the newspaper EL PAS; Payoff; and ONEX.

Her 14th book, Thrive: The Third Metric to Redefining Success and Creating a Life of Well-Being, Wisdom, and Wonder debuted at #1 on the New York Times Bestseller list and was released in paperback in March 2015. 



Also from the site currently:


All Things Arianna

    Arianna's Upcoming Schedule
    Arianna's Speeches and Public Appearances
    Arianna's TV Appearances
    Arianna's Radio and Podcast Appearances
    Arianna In Print

I don't think all of that would be there if she was not quite active on the site. Maybe she's too busy multi-tasking to give it the serious attention it should be getting. :(



  She's Greek so maybe she is trying to pay off some debts :,( HA! Would be great if she put efforts into helping Greece - perhaps she is!


Let's hope so :) They started realizing that people are into that so they're just catering to the majority. But yeah pretty bad It's a shame because I thought there articles were - at one time - quite good. What's going on with Oprah? LOL - I've no idea! hmmm. it appears huffington is talking about faces she made during the oscars.  it includes lots of gifs!  [JOURNALISM!!](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2015/02/22/oprah-2015-oscars-reactions_n_6709952.html) You mean the shallow fuck that launched Dr. Phil and Dr. Oz's careers?   I think Oprah had also softball interviewed Jenny McCarthy prior to the height of the anti vaccine McCarthy era.  Oprah is as useless as a two inch cock.  Oprah is an excellent role model for reading but not for critical thinking. The scary part is when you see good reporting coming from buzz feed.  No.  [Advanced Publications](http://www.advance.net/) owns Reddit.  Conde Nast is a sister subsidiary under [Advanced Publications](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advance_Publications). That website is way more dumbed down than I would've expected. Straight from 1997. I thought it was a parked domain at first. &gt; Conde Nast. Supposedly they're mostly hands off. They also own Ars Technica and a few other places.

Laughable as Ars Technica is often cited as a source for tech news on Reddit supporting Reddits market position.

Its almost as if Conde Nast has horizontally integrated media outlets pushing its political narrative.  OK, so I work for Verizon (Wireless), and while sometimes I feel like a guy in a gray suit on a Star Destroyer waiting for the order to blow up Alderaan, I usually don't feel like I work for the bad guys -- but even when I do, it's not hard for me to see that I'm working for the smart guys.

Verizon *did not* buy TechCrunch and Engadget -- Verizon bought AOL, which happens to own them and a bunch of websites that generate &lt;10% of its operating income. Most analysts expect these companies to be sold off immediately, possibly as part of the regulatory oversight of the merger that allows the deal to happen.

Why did Verizon buy AOL? Because most if its growth is in *mobile advertising revenue* and it owns a ton of patents in mobile advertising. It's also the third largest provider of mobile video on the web, after Google and Facebook.

In a nutshell, Verizon knows that cable TV is on the decline, and mobile viewing is on the way up. Rather than being a dumb conduit for services like Netflix, they want to at least be the company that owns the advertising tech, and at best be the actual video content provider (the way that, in the cable world, they're an actual video content provider).

I'm a consumer and a big advocate of Net Neutrality, and I think of this as being potentially a good thing; it means VZ will have a stake in proving conclusively that it *doesn't* oppose net neutrality, and it'll get ad revenue from across the globe from customers who are on OTHER ISPs -- which means that it'll have a vested interest in making sure that other carriers aren't allowed to throttle its sites.

Edit: Fixed a wandering grammar. This. I saw a great tweet about how the two Verge stories this morning on the acquisition, published half an hour apart, were about 1) how TC and Engadget would be conflicted with the new ownership, and 2) about how ownership conflicts don't matter because Verizon doesn't care about content. Nobody seems to have read the second one. Or the story in Recode about how Verizon/AOL has already been in talks to spin off Huffpo.

The much bigger threat to TC and Engadget is that they will be sold to an equity chop shop and dismantled. Verizon has no interest in keeping them. The question is does someone else? Right -- I'd still be (very reasonably) worried if I worked for Engadget, but it wouldn't be about Verizon's editorial oversight, it'd be the potentially dramatic changes brought about by whoever Verizon sells to. [deleted] As someone who worked for AOL, goodluck to Verizon if they try to editorialize Huffington Post...their management and writers understand how valuable their brand is and they don't play nice with anyone from the business side Their management and writers probably won't work there much longer. Possibly not, but anyone inside the telecom industry would be shocked if VZ didn't sell Huffpo and all the other AOL blogs -- they serve no purpose to VZ, AOL's mobile advertising patents do. Their management already scammed the writers when it sold to AOL. AOL has already said they have been looking into spinning off the huff post and likely will sell it. Luckily sites that AOL buy become irrelevant shortly after, so this shouldn't be a problem. They have some sort of reverse midas touch. The midass touch. ArsTechnica masterrace. Yeah. Who reads Engadget since the exodus?  Exodus? A lot of their best talent left around the time The Verge started up, not all of them left for The Verge, but a good chunk did. Not to mention that Ryan Block and and Peter Rojas left when it was purchased by AOL. I really miss the golden times when Rojas/Block used to run the blog. IMO the best era. Then there was the apple biased topolsky era. (Which was entertaining but also annoying because that guy seems to be really creative and gets the industry well, but he's also a douchebag). I really liked Tim Stevens, but he focused too much on cars and you could feel that the blog never really got its old shape again. I don't really know who runs it now, but it kinds lost its flair, to me it just seems to be a generic tech blog, nothing special anymore.

Wow, I can't believe I read that blog regularly over more than 10 years. I can't even believe that anything on the Internet gets that old. When Wired became too hipster-y, the nerds migrated to Ars. The disclaimer: http://www.engadget.com/2015/05/12/sprint-and-verizon-pay-158-million-over-cramming/ This is great. I like Engadget and really hope nothing fucks with it. For the lazy:

&gt; *Verizon is currently in the process of acquiring AOL, Engadget's parent company. However, Engadget maintains full editorial control, and Verizon will have to pry it from our cold, dead hands. [deleted] I love that people still expect separation of church and state in the media. Of course they banned their reporters from doing that. Of course, it's also wrong, but the public doesn't want to pay for news. Don't want to pay, don't expect the tenets that journalism once espoused to remain.

Signed,

Severely disgruntled journalist  It doesn't matter if people pay, there's still going to be corruption.

NPR, for example, takes government funding yet has ad reads on air every 15 minutes and now has ads on their website yet still makes local radio stations beg their listenership for money.

And then you have Buzzfeed and The Verge which actually create ads on behalf of companies that want to advertise on those sites.

The conflict of interest just makes your head spin! The point is that reliance on advertising for revenue creates that conflict of interest. Hence the BBC. NPR would've been the same, and in fact started out the same IIRC.



 They want the ad exchanges and the ability to transition it to  mobile / OTT. They don't care about the specific sites, so long as they are profitable.

AOL had 400 million in revenue from advertising last quarter.  But will they keep Shingy on board? Verizon has no interest in owning TechCrunch and Engadget (and you missed the big one, Huffington Post). They are going to spin off or sell these sites which will also make the deal more palatable for approval.

http://recode.net/2015/05/12/aol-in-talks-to-spin-off-huffpost-as-part-of-acquisition-deal/ *thanks for visiting Engadget, brought to you by verizon.  Did you know verizon was awesome? If not, no worries we will make sure we never stop stressing it* I guess ignoring is somewhat better than outright lying like some news orgs do. Sort of like Reddit and their editorial discretion as being owned by Conde Nast?  Well the potentially good thing is that TechCrunch won't give a shit until they all get fired for doing something Verizon thinks they can stop, but TechCrunch thinks is totally fine.  

And then because TechCrunch has a lot of assholes working there, they'll throw some shit up on other websites saying what happened, leak as much as they possibly can and whore that attention out for as much as they can before starting a new website, challenging any non-compete concepts in court after being told they couldn't perform their jobs, etc etc.

Or, Verizon will be smart and leave them alone and let them write whatever they want because they're profitable and it would cause a lot more legal headaches to go after the big dog in Silicon Valley that a whole ton of people with a whole lot of money love to use to flog their businesses.   verizon is acting just like hooli ! What! TechCrunch was a great source of news I've found lately :/ They are going to go the way of shitty Engadget and Huffington post?

Both those were amazing at one point. /sigh AOL has owned Techcrunch for longer than they've owned Engadget OR Huffington post so I have no idea what the hell you're talking about. Maybe they're trying to get that sweet sweet dial up money. So next we get Umbrella Corp, then the zombies take over? I'll be in my zombie bunker. What if we (the people) crowd funded an attempt to buy up a majority of Verizon's shares and ran it into the ground? And that's why content providers should not be ISPs and vice versa.  Conflict of interest! When reporters and editors agree to censor themselves, they are part of the corruption slowly eroding this country. "I was just following orders" is not an excuse.  Talk about a clickbait title...

&gt; It remains to be seen what  if any  changes Verizon intends to make to its newly-acquired stable of online publications.

Right from the article. No such thing has been said to the Aol ground troops I'd wager. Aol outspent google on net neutrality last year.  The title of this article is misleading. They didn't really own a "media company" they ran an in-house tech blog. So, Verizon might censor Huffington Posts hard-hitting *journalism*? And Murdoch funds both sides of the climate change debate by owning FOX news and co-owning VICE media. 

I don't even know where to start. The problems with media are so much worse than this Verizon thing and nobody cares. They serve their intended purpose:  keep the masses bickering about petty differences (environut vs denier, red vs blue, liberal vs conservative, etc) that way they pay no attention to the fact that they are being ass raped. Verizon is complete shit.  TIL. AOL still exists.  Oh man I love a good pancake sometimes. Verizon doesn't care about Techcrunch and Huffpost - they will sell it. Here's what they want to do.[Verizon's acquisition of AOL is a move to disrupt the TV market]( http://www.networkworld.com/article/2923020/opensource-subnet/verizons-acquisition-of-aol-is-a-move-to-disrupt-the-tv-market.html) If you own the media, you own the news.  You can control the information the people get.

Which is why Murdoch, Berlusconi, Koch Bros., etc. are blights on our society. Yeah, no conflict of interest here....   /s So Verizon's internet fast lane will take us back to 1990 Fast enough to go around the world so many times the wrong way that you get the past. Like in superman.  WHY are they buying AOL should be the question? Interesting that some of the biggest news site in tech are owned by AOL, and have been writing extensively about net neutrality and Verizon.. hmmm I wonder if there is a connection.

Hopefully they will not be allowed to go ahead. Cable companies should not be content provider also.. and if they are, they should be under strict regulation, ironically enough, about not regulating the content Or the half a billion in revenue AOL pulls in from its advertising business. I bet Verizon wither shutters the sites or let's them do whatever they want. There is no gain to be had from them. Because Aol is the largest internet advertising company that isn't outrageous to buy...its the 3rd largest in the US. Verizon wants more advertising so they bought a company with huge knowledge and products already on the market. And since they have been one of the largest customers of Aol's advertising they are already well integrated. This is the best tl;dr I could make, [original](http://www.businessinsider.com/verizon-sugarstring-tech-blog-cole-stryker-net-neutrality-government-surveillance-2015-5) reduced by 74%. (I'm a bot)
*****
&gt; News of Verizon&amp;#039;s publishing venture and its strict rules first came to light to multiple reporters through recruiting emails sent last week by author and reporter Cole Stryker, who is now the editor-in-chief of SugarString.

&gt; Verizon subsequently &amp;quot;Threw [Stryker] under the bus,&amp;quot; O&amp;#039;Neill in a follow-up, with the tech company claiming that &amp;quot;Unlike the characterization by its new editor, SugarString is open to all topics that fit its mission and elevate the conversation around technology."

&gt; Unlike the characterization by its new editor, SugarString is open to all topics that fit its mission and elevate the conversation around technology.


*****
[**Extended Summary**](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/35py9o/verizon_is_buying_aol_which_owns_techcrunch_and/) | [FAQ](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31b9fm/faq_autotldr_bot/ "Version 1.5, ~17449 tl;drs so far.") | [Theory](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31bfht/theory_autotldr_concept/) | [Feedback](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%23autotldr "PMs and comment replies are read by the bot admin, constructive feedback is welcome.") | *Top* *five* *keywords*: **Verizon**^#1 **SugarString**^#2 **topics**^#3 **company**^#4 **reporter**^#5

Post found in [/r/technology](/r/technology/comments/35pckq/verizon_is_buying_aol_which_owns_techcrunch_and/) and [/r/realtech](/r/realtech/comments/35pcny/verizon_is_buying_aol_which_owns_techcrunch_and/). Don't like the news?  Just buy it. If the guy who found the cure for Polio can give away the patent, the guy who invented the world wide web give away the patent, why can't billion dollar companies give away patents that will only benefit everyone? People still need someone to build the electric cars.  Dont forget Volvo, they gave away seat belt patent for the greater good and have saved countless lives in the process.  John Deere gave away roll over protection, as long as everyone agreed to make it standard. As an option, no farmer would pay for it.  Isnt John Deere the one that wants to change agronomy vehicles into licenses instead of products? That's fucked up... I'm totally cool with not owning a vehicle. As long as I am not required to do the maintenance either. Just like the subway, or the bus. I pay a fee to use it, they make sure it is maintained. [deleted] &gt; Volvo, they gave away seat belt patent for *the greater good* 

**The greater good.** I was very confused until I realised you meant the *actual* Volvo.   _  VOLVO GIVE DIRETIDE PATENTS Is it sad that I thought the same thing...? Sigh, DOTO what are you doing to me... he means the company saved lives by giving *every car* seatbelts, not just Volvo's. He was referencing people calling Valve (a video game company) Volvo. It's an older meme [oh, i see](http://www.reactiongifs.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/oh.gif) Nah, I'm pretty sure he means the company that saves thousands of lives, because people don't leave their house anymore. Musk said it best in Tesla's announcement: 

&gt; Technology leadership is not defined by patents, which history has repeatedly shown to be small protection indeed against a determined competitor, but rather by the ability of a company to attract and motivate the worlds most talented engineers. We believe that applying the open source philosophy to our patents will strengthen rather than diminish Teslas position in this regard. Its actually comes down to who has the better business model. It doesn't really matter if you have a technological breakthrough. In fact even if you have one, if you don't have a good business model, it's likely to fail. Makes Tesla's name kind of ironic. explain please? Nikola Tesla was a scientific genius, but his superior ideas and advancements in electricity were "out-marketed" by Thomas Edison

**Edit:** Because of the very many, opposing, and angry replies I've received, I will attempt to make this more ambiguous.

Tesla is to Thomas Edison as, potentially, Elon Musk is to other car companies in a business sense. This does not bode well for the success of Elon Musk, making it ironic that the company is named Tesla.

**Edit:** As someone else pointed out, he named it Tesla because the cars run on ~~DC~~ **AC** and he, like Tesla envisioned, is bringing ~~DC~~ **AC** to the people. What's ironic is that it is fitting for the above reason as well, which Elon Musk probably did not intend.

**Edit:** DC to AC Do you mean AC? I'm fairly sure that Tesla was a proponent for AC and that Tesla cars use a 3 phase AC motor. I think it's fair to call Edison a genius too, Tesla just was even more so, except in a more narrow spectrum (Edisons extended to marketing and business in general). Honestly I'd equate Edison to Steve Jobs. Both brilliant marketers and business men however as inventors...there was a team for that. Does that mean Tesla was the first Woz? Edison was a poser,  he didn't even code  Yes, he woz. No. There have been a steady stream of Woz's since the beginning of human time.  Hardly. Woz is rich and celebrated thanks to Steve Jobs' marketing of his inventions, and stopped doing engineering because he chose to basically retire to enjoy his money (some also say because he sustained brain damage after crashing his plane). Nothing like Tesla's life at all.  Eh, don't underestimate Edison's skills as an inventor.  He invented a bunch of telegraph improvements, and then the first phonograph, almost entirely on his own.

It is true that a lot of his later inventions were made as a leader of a team of inventors, but that doesn't mean he wasn't brilliant.   I'd say more like Bill Gates then Steve Jobs; Bill Gates started out as a brilliant computer programer, and then used that to start a business where he hired a lot of other computer programers.    Edison was a jack ass too, just like Jobs.  I frequently make this comparison I just add the part where both of them are assholes.   You think woz is an asshole? He's always seemed pretty cool to me.
 Woah, I never thought about Edison like that. It just makes perfect sense Edison was, first and foremost, a businessman. He didn't so much "invent" the lightbulb as he came up with the most economically efficient way to mass market it.  Whoa! Well then this will really blow [your mind](http://knowledgenuts.com/2013/10/19/edison-publicly-tortured-animals-to-discredit-ac-power/). Wrong. J.P Morgan took over the company after they got beaten down by Tesla's AC. Morgan bought 60% (I think) of the company and named it General Electric. What is G.E now is mainly because of J.P Morgan, not Edison. They even hired Nikola Tesla at some point. Tesla worked for Edison before jp Morgan.  He left as Edison refused to let Tesla pursue his superior ac technology. He promised Tesla a huge sum of money which he refused to pay. "You just don't understand American humor"

I wish Edison said "it's a Jersey thing!" Wrong. Tesla worked for them twice. This is when they built Wardenclyffe Tower because Tesla promised Morgan that he has a better way of transmitting wireless communication than Marconi's radio based telegraph. Although not directly working with G.E but Morgan's interest aligns with it so he backed the project. See: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wardenclyffe_Tower I think you're confusing tenacity with genius.  Edison was a brilliant inventor but his marketing and business practices remind me of Blockbuster and Comcast.  He clung to his glory days and tried to milk them for everything they were worth while the rest of the world moved on. Everything I know about Edison says he basically stole most of his inventions from interns working under him and was only successful over Tesla because he had more business connections and influence established in America whereas Tesla was a foreign immigrant. Not to mention Edison went around killing dogs with electricity to try and smear Tesla's AC. *"They'll say 'Aw, Topsy' at my au~topsy..."* He even killed an elephant  [Alternating Current wasn't "Tesla's".](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alternating_current#Pioneers)

[The internet decided Tesla and Edison were mortal enemies and Edison was a dick. This probably isn't true.](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/1np8qu/what_really_happened_between_edison_and_tesla)

For reference in the last one, [$50,000 is $1.2 Million in today's money.](https://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=50000+1882+dollars) Ah, so what you're saying is that you know very little about Edison.  That makes sense.  Your understanding of him is fundamentally flawed.

Edison invented quite a few things (e.g. phonograph), he innovated and refined on other inventions dramatically improving their usefulness (e.g. light bulb), and he ran massive laboratories that incubated numerous ideas and produced many inventions (e.g. electric chair, movie camera).  While he wasn't the inventor of many of the things that came out of his labs, he was the inspiration by asking for solutions to challenges that impeded his work in other areas or simply by tasking someone with exploring a subject of interest.  He was also the financial backer for all of these inventions that might not have happened with out him.

Like with most patents, most of his were innovations on existing technology or just bullshit but the patent system is flawed and abused.  As they say "don't hate the player, hate the game."

I wouldn't say Edison was a good man, but I'd be hesitant to say he was a bad man as well.  Perhaps tenacious to a fault.  When his lab assistant fell ill experimenting with x-rays, Edison kept him on the pay roll and continued to financially support his family. The Emeffer also wired up a poor elephant and publicly electrocuted her for the same reasons. 

https://youtu.be/NoKi4coyFw0 Maybe so, but it's also right to call Edison a fucking psycho for publicly electrocuting 'stray' animals in an effort to discredit Tesla's Alternating Current vs his own Direct Current. The average person a century ago didn't give a fuck about animal welfare, it's not like Edison was an anomaly. Perspective. It was a different time. We had racism and animal cruelty rampant. But you can't call him "a fucking psycho" for killing animals for monetary gain during that era.  But DC energy is kind of shitty when it needs to be sent halfway across the country. AC was by far a superior choice for how we are using it. I'm not sure if this is really  "out-marketed" or not.  Edison's greatest invention was the industrial research lab.  Prior to that, invention was a solitary business for the most part.  Putting a team on a problem, and systematizing the work made a vast difference in what was possible.  Research labs are now all over the place. I must be missing something, Edison was the DC current booster and Tesla was the AC current booster, (yes I know that simplifies things).
 Gimmie a moment,
 Ahh, gotta love google, Musk bought the company after it was named Tesla, the original founders made their choice after narrowing it down to Faraday or Tesla. I think you have your currents crossed.

Tesla cars are driven by a [3 phase AC induction motor](http://my.teslamotors.com/roadster/technology/motor) which was indeed invented by Nikola Tesla.

Tesla, furthermore, wanted to bring free wireless AC energy to the people. Westinghouse, who employed him for a time, was pushing wired AC transmission.

Edison was a proponent of DC. From things I've read, that's a bit contested now. There are sources that contend that Edison did very little engineering and instead pillaged ideas and took credit. I, of course, have no links handy but that's a common view lately. It wasn't just "out marketing," it was "out connecting." Edison was, no pun intended, very well connected. If it weren't for his enormous sphere of influence, and the depth that influence commanded, he would have lost out against Tesla. I think Tesla (The inventor) is remembered as a genius who invented many interesting things, but never really made any money and never got his inventions to the people. Musk has been quoted saying he actually liked Edison better. Yes, which makes perfect sense honestly. Musk is, in my eyes, as much a businessman as an engineer. This. People see him as an angel for opening his patents but it was just a good business move. He truly needs competition to continue growth.  One of the main things to come of it is more charge stations across the country which will make it easier to own electric cars. With that said, I love Musk. He's doing some cool shit with Tesla Motors and batteries and Space-X. Im looking forward to the future this guy brings! [Most concise explanation I can find.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gJ1Mz7kGVf0) I was [expecting this](http://theoatmeal.com/comics/tesla). "And I have Reddit"
-Rapper Tesla

Apparently he knew more than we thought. Probably one of their best videos. I love them all for the most part though  hawking/einstein is my favorite  Look up Nikola Tesla vs Thomas Eddison EPIC RAP BATTLES OF HISTORY  EEERRRUPIC RAAAPBATURRA HITHTORA! BEGIN! Someone else could explain this better, but a quick ELI5:

Nikolai Tesla had great ideas but made little money. Musk's Tesla is attempting to change the world while remaining sustainable.  Tesla was a scientific genius but not a great business man. 

Had he given more care or concern to the business side of his inventions, the world would be a remarkably different place. 

I'm not going to pretend to be a historian, I suggest you do some research or watch a documentary on tesla. I promise it will be fascinating.  I don't think so. Selling one product is one thing, but selling your dreams and visions is different and will always be the best. A good examples are Nike and Apple. When they do marketing, they don't tell you how great their products are. They tell you what they want to achieve and what they want to accomplish. 

When you hear Tesla, the first thing you remember is Nikola Tesla and when you do, you see Visionary, Genius and IRON MAN. And that is what they want you to think. It perfectly make sense doesn't it? Exactly. 

Which is why Kodak ~~isn't a company anymore~~ [filed for bankruptcy in 2012](http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2012-01-19/kodak-photography-pioneer-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-1-), even though they invented digital photography. 

edit: my bad, they do still exist. But I'm of the opinion they ended up in the toilet because of a lack of innovation in their business model, not a lack of technological innovation. Kodak is still in Business Huh. Picture that with a Kodak. Kodak is still a company 

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eastman_Kodak Yeah but the better your product the easier it is to build a succesful business model around that.  Back then when Norton AV is booming, there was this one anti-virus that is much better and it was developed by a single scientist/professor in a University. But they had a (good) business model and that is to provide a whole package of data security. Sure, that guy's AV is much better but wouldn't you prefer the whole package with technical support and such?

IHMO, it's a pretty bad idea to base your product in a technology breakthrough. It's always been the case. Look at Nokia, friendster, myspace.  Yup thats why norton did better.  It's important to build a product in general.  I've seen many startups focus on building a technology with no associated deliverable/marketable product, this is a sure fire path to failure. Fail in terms of making money yes. But it won't necessarily fail at helping people or solving a problem or providing a service. In most case it certainly does matter if you have a technological breakthrough. Perhaps that doesn't apply here, but that is an isolated case. 

If it weren't, companies around the world would not be investing so much money in developing their technology. It makes most sense to open your patents, not only from that perspective but from a business one too. Let someone else develop your patent on their own with their own talents and ideas then when it gets good enough, buy them out. They get their 20 million and you get a great new product at a fraction of the R&amp;D you would've spent.

By opening up the patents they allow crowdsourcing, instead of hiring 30 engineers who may just have had good interviews they wait for the product to develop itself among thousands of engineers all competing to make the next best new product. Patents are actually vital for small businesses though. A large business could otherwise reverse engineer pretty fast and all your efforts would be in vain. There's no way for the small business to keep up. Usually the patent gets bought but a larger firm, which is the carrot for many inventors. At the same time, it raises the barrier for entry for small businesses.  Every idea/product/etc must be patent searched beforehand, otherwise you risk losing a lot more money. Has the release of the Tesla patents resulted in anything? Not yet as far as we can tell.
 It will take time, especially in the automotive field. There is 0 room for failure when you release a product. Rushing something out the door and trying to fix it later with software updates doesn't go so well when people's lives are on the line. I'm sure that's one of the reasons you see 2 year delays between Tesla's estimates and their actual ship dates. Exactly.  If you gave the top engineers in the world a choice between working at Tesla or Ford, what would they pick?  I think that's probably a no brainer. I'd choose Ford.

&gt;If you want a family or hobbies or to see any other aspect of life other than the boundaries of your cubicle, SpaceX is not for you and Elon doesn't give a damn...

&gt;The engineer continues by saying that Musk's leadership is "best compared to a master who berates and smacks his dog for not being able to read his mind."

&gt;"Diamonds are created under pressure, and Elon Musk is a master diamond maker," Dolly Singh, former head of talent acquisition for SpaceX

from http://www.businessinsider.com/what-its-like-to-work-for-elon-musk-2014-6#ixzz3bRfOatuF



 Ford probably pays better. And has better working hours. But you'd probably have to move to Detroit... I am an engineer who moved to Detroit to work for Ford about 4 years ago. I love working for Ford and Detroit is actually pretty awesome. I love living here. When I persuade people to actually visit they are blown away at how much there is to do in and around the city. It's not entirely a bombed out post apocalyptic wasteland.

Sounds like you have never been here, I strongly encourage you to visit sometime before judging a truly great city. If you're being held hostage blink twice, we'll send help. I'm good. They are feeding me coneys. &gt; coneys

I was under the impression coney was an island, not a thing to eat. There are loads of restaurants called Coney Islands in Michigan. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coney_Island_(restaurant). 

They usually all serve [Coneys](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coney_Island_hot_dog).  Have you been to both competing coney places that are like right next door to each other? &gt; It's not entirely a bombed out post apocalyptic wasteland.

Detroit: not an entirely bombed out post-apocalyptic wasteland. I remember either a photo journalism piece or a video about young folk who are living in Detroit who are trying to break the image of the burned out desolation of the city.  They took a video of one of the infamously destroyed buildings... one that has been featured in a good number of 'urban exploration' sites.  Then panned over to the right to see a bustling city corner with an active bar and restaurants with folks hanging out and what not.

We only see what folks are willing to show us.  But I am with Realsan.  I don't think I'd like the weather all that much at all. It was probably the old train station in Corktown. There's a bunch of good bars and restaurants right there. I go down there all the time.

The weather does kind of suck, but it makes the 4 months of summer so much better. How's the cost of living and what's it like for non black minorities? What's it like working at ford ?Truly curious Luckily Ford also produces armored cars! I would say most people that work at the Big 3 in Detroit don't live in Detroit, there is so much cheap land outside of Detroit that there is no reason you need to. Not as many people work at the big three near Detroit anymore. But companies that service the automation side of the business do. A lot of bigger manufacturing supply companies are located around the Detroit metro area. Big robot makers, vision and inspection companies, conveyor fabricators, tool and die shops, tons of computer control system makers, pneumatic systems, you get the idea. 

The big 3 have been pulling away from Detroit, but the companies that make factories actually work have all stuck around.  So Detroit is an Ironman manufactoring center?

They should go with that marketing campaign.

 Because upper class suburbs like Bloomfield Hills don't exist there. With the amount of gentrification going on... it doesn't sound that bad A friend of mine from college turned down SpaceX to work for GM.

Musk's companies are notorious for not allowing a work-life balance. I can't speak for Ford v. Tesla, but if Tesla is anything like SpaceX, then they expect their engineers to work insane hours for below market salary, and burn them out in a few years just to replace them with fresh graduates.  Yes, it's an interesting place to work and it looks good on your resume, but it's far from a "no-brainer" They wouldn't pick Tesla Eh as an engineer myself itd depend on a lot of things. Assuming equal positions and pay (which is a major stretch) then its also going to depend on hours ill have to work and benefits and lots of other things. Theres nothing about Tesla that makes me think itd be a miles better job than Ford. Sure its a cool trendy innovative company but thats not everything. Ford pushes tech too and they might have a project id rather get involved with than simply high end electric cars. You'd probably get more vacation time at Ford too if you negotiated a bit. Yup. Besides, as far as petrol motors goes Ford has some *amazing* technology. Their ecoboost motor is the size of an A4 paper, yet can produce 120 horsepower. It really is ridiculous good engineering. "ecoboost" is their name for "any small engine with a turbo". It's applied to a large variety of engines, not all of which push 120 hp. Yeah I was talking about the one in the new Ford Focus, sorry for not clarifying. Many would pick ford.  Tesla, much like spacex, is a complete intellectual meat grinder.  Don't get me wrong,  I love their work, but it would blow to work with those conditions for long.  If I got the choice between Tesla and a German manufacturer I would take the German one every time. 40 hour work week, nice benefits, cares about their workforce, established company where you can advance upwards.

At Tesla you probably work yourself into the ground within a few years, probably exactly around time start a family and what do you get for that? A CV that BMW or Mercedes probably pay you a decent salary for.  Those companies usually have pretty fixed salary structures, so I doubt it would do much. Also why not just go there right away? And it you goal is to work there you are better off to start working at EDAG or mpx to get into those companies. Tesla doesn't pay competitive salaries. I've had a few engineer friends turn down offers there.  I'm not saying this is the way it should be, but there is a simple answer that's right under your nose.   

The examples you gave of patents being given away were all done by individuals, people who could make that decisions themselves. The other people in your question "billion dollar companies" are just that - corporations. If their R&amp;D efforts (which required money and investment) yielded an advantage that could result in increased revenue or higher profitability, they are obligated by the shareholders to take advantage of that. The owners of these companies get to decide what to do with, and by and large the reaction is "we paid for this to be invented, we want to make money off it".  The more practical answer, is that it was a smart business decision for Tesla to stop enforcing its patents (that is all they did). It will help their technologies become the standard and adopted by more people, improving their own expansion and markets. To think this was altruistic is to look at the world through the rose colored glasses of a child. There are companies who profit from patent trolling. That's why we can't have nice things. The Polio vaccine should have been a huge seller, you have a worldwide captive audience, and the sales could have employed thousands of people making yachts and mansions for the captains of industry that allowed it's creation. By giving the patents away, who knows how many people starved to death because they couldn't get a job. It's selfish people like this that only think of themselves that make me sick.

Now if you don't mind, I need to get my iron lung fixed, it's patented and the company that makes it refuses to service it and nobody else make iron lungs. Seriously? For money, that's why.  The flip side is if you work diligently to create something of value that you could potentially patent to ensure you get paid for your work then that offers some safety to you. While opening up patents can be good for everyone, forcing work to be open to everyone takes away the incentive for some inventors. I like things that are open but would oppose removing property protection to those that desire it. While true, this greatly diminishes motivation for R&amp;D spending. If company A puts in 40% of their profit towards R&amp;D while Company B puts in 40% of their profits towards replicating and perfecting Company A's innovations, as well as marketing, Company B is going to win by a massive stretch.  Who payed for the Polio vaccine? Who payed for the www? I bet a huge amount of the money came from the government.

Meanwhile a corporation that puts millions into R&amp;D needs to see a direct return on investment and government does not operate in the same way. How much of that r&amp;d is funded by government grants? Impossible to track sadly, they often support more indirectly than grants even. We just had the state give us significant perks to build or new facility in the city of their choice including a lot of free labor from city engineers and army corp of engineers, as well as interest free loans in the 8 figure range. They consider it an investment as they will recover costs in ~10 years through our taxes at current state, but 3-5 at expected growth. because they want to be trillion dollar companies Patents are big business -- you can make a lot of money by suing the hell out of people.  (Right, Apple?) Ford is a leader and I wish more people had respect for that company. It's leadership is incredible.

They've done a lot, but most notably: They took ZERO bailout dollars and now this.

Ford has a shit ton of my respect when it comes to their leadership. Didn't their CEO do a paycut on himself (like $1+stocks) and minimize (lowest out of the big car companies) layoffs when the recession hit? (Cut down profit margins &amp; expenses).   I could be wrong.  

Anyways, I'm still mad about the bailout.   Ford lobbied for but ultimately did not take the bailout. Then they traded ownership of the company for a lot of the debt they owed, which gave them cash legs to stand on. During/after that, they made a lot of changes to how they do business, started selling (IMO) better cars (eurofocus wheeeee, 300 hp v6 mustang wheEEEEplash) and went back to being profitable. Should be mentioned that this wouldn't have worked for the other companies, as Ford was in better shape than them and probably the only one capable of convincing their debt holders that stock to cancel the debt was a good deal to make. They sold most of their share of Mazda as well. ...and sold of Jaguar-Land Rover (JLR), Aston Martin, Volvo, all in order to focus on the core brands.

 I think it worked out well, do you? For the most part, great. FoMoCo is making the best cars they ever have. Their overall line up is very strong and they're making health profits.

They reeeally need to continue to focus on Lincoln, though. Interesting and comfortable vehicles but they're like an American Acura. Lincoln could and should be playing with Cadillac and BMW et al. Ford has the powertrains and the engineering know how to do RWD luxry and sports luxury sedans. We need a new Continental and a twin turbo Mark 9 sports sedan, and they need to drop the MXZ MXX MTZ MMSXRQ whatever the hell they're calling their cars right now. I can't never remember the difference. &gt; They've done a lot, but most notably: They took ZERO bailout dollars and now this.  

I think where they were standing up there with the other representatives was just an example of the greatest thinking on their feet of all time.  

They came down there with every intention of getting assistance if they could get away with it, but they felt the room and took the initiative.  

More a commentary on their leadership than the company as a whole, since everyone was in dire straits at that point. They were just lucky that they got a huge credit line just before the crisis hit. They had more than 20 billion credit line and that allowed them to weather through the 2008/9 financial crisis. 

You could say they saw the crisis coming, but there was big element of luck in it happening right before the shit hit the fan not to mention they managed to make the focus looks cool to drive in. Seriously, the RS might be my next car. They are also arguably one of the best vehicle manufacturers to work for. My grandpa had worked with them, and they provided essentially every benefit, and made sure their workers could retire relatively comfortably. Working conditions were significantly better than most other blue collar jobs at the time he was there. People will want to attack them because "big business" and the fact they are still attaching a fee (which is completely understandable, and actually probably better than what tesla said), but the truth is they are pretty good people. &gt; They've done a lot, but most notably: They took ZERO bailout dollars and now this.

http://www.factcheck.org/2011/09/ford-motor-co-does-u-turn-on-bailouts/

&gt;A Ford TV ad slams competitors for accepting bailout funds, even though the companys CEO lobbied for the bill. The company  the only one of the Big Three not to receive a bailout  feared a collapse of GM and Chrysler at the time would have hurt suppliers and, in turn, Ford itself. Ford Chief Executive Officer Alan R. Mulally also asked Congress for a credit line of up to $9 billion in case the economy worsened.  In other words, Ford was for government bailouts before it was against them.

&gt; Although Ford did not need money from the $80 billion bailout program, Ford did receive $5.9 billion in government loans in 2009 to retool its manufacturing plants to produce more fuel-efficient cars, and the company lobbied for and benefited from the cash-for-clunkers program  contrary to the ads testimonial that Ford is standing on their own.

Additionally, I've heard Ford got a line of credit before the crash putting them in a better position than others. *Electrified Vehicle Engineer*

I want that on my business card. http://www.vistaprint.com/category/business-cards.aspx Guys this is not some change of heart. If more electric cars are on the road and the march towards electric cars becomes reality the companies that spent money to research the tech will not lose their investment. If electric cars are a fad then they lose money. It's economics not some realization that patents belong to everyone... 
 The important thing is that you found a reason to be cynical. &gt; If electric cars are a fad then they lose money.

Or in the case of Tesla, they will completely go out of business. Actually, Tesla also sells batteries. They are building [a humongous battery factory](http://www.teslamotors.com/gigafactory) actually. They could probably survive off of selling those.

**Edit:** I just looked into it. The Gigafactory isn't just really big, it's bigger than all other Li-ion factories combined... Good point. Tesla does believe they could use the entire Gigafactory to produce only grid storage batteries. But they're a bit of an "all in" sort of company. So a failure of the entire car side of the business would likely mean a buyout of the battery side. Musk is also involved in SpaceX &amp; SolarCity. I don't think anything he is doing will just up &amp; fail.

Edit: INB4 crashed SpaceX rocket "up &amp; failed." Wasn't he also a founder of Paypal? The energy storage market, while slowly developing, is no where near the point where if Tesla's car business died their gigafactory investment would still work out.

At the moment, there really are only two stand-alone business cases that work for grid storage batteries; 1) PJM frequency regulation (irregular bursts of power into the grid to maintain 60 hz frequency) and 2) infrastructure upgrade deferral, i.e a transmission line is overloaded 3 hrs a year and its cheaper to install storage than rebuild the line.

Behind the meter (end-user) storage is not close to being economical in the U.S. because there is very little incentive for people with behind the meter generation (i.e rooftop PV) to store their own energy rather than just feed it on to the grid. Few places have time of day rates and even the places that do the delta between peak and off peak isn't enough to justify the investment in storage (even at powerwall prices).
There are utilities that are doing pilot projects to better understand storage and there is all the activity in California that is driven by their storage mandate but most/none of these projects make much sense from a pure economic standpoint.
I think there will be a lot more applications that become viable in the coming years as market rules change to allow storage projects to get paid for the benefits they provide (such as what under consideration in MISO right now) and as behind the meter generators become more responsible for their capacity burden to the system. I also think you will eventually see battery storage incorporated into large solar plants to make them more controllable. There may also be a case in a few areas to use storage for peaking when an NG plant is not feasible and/or ratepayers are willing to pay the extra cost. And if we continue to use gasoline, we're pretty much fucked anyways. Absolutely. Lots of money put into this idea. Gm is gambling big money into it as well.  Yes but intent doesn't change the net effects. If the net effects are wearing down support for patent legislation, that's good. Also, patents on this sort of thing are useless to Ford. Only major companies can mass produce a car. The amount of investment to make a production car is enormous. That's why Teslas have such a huge premium. 

The only companies that Ford can compete with have patents of their own. So suing them for patent infringement will just leave both companies in a big legal battle that will be a draw. Plus like Tesla, I bet Ford's license to the world includes a "don't sue us" provision.

Ford would only want to use its patents on the little upstarts. But those people aren't a threat.  That means I could upgrade my ford focus to electric now?

I would just need goto china and show them a drawing. and say "Build me that!" They already make an electric focus Just go to Ford, they already sell an [electric variant of the Focus](http://www.ford.com/cars/focus/trim/electric/?fmccmp=lp-hybrids-top-hp-focus%20electric). You don't even need China, just a bloke with free time and half a brain.   But the culture... Is it really *that* easy to swap the engine for an electric motor? With enough duct-tape, yes.

But in all seriousness, a lot has to be done in order to do a proper swap. It basically boils down to replacing everything between the motor and the differential...and it's really not that simple. Ford already sells an electric Focus. At least in my country they do. Ford is actually charging a fee for licensing the patents, whereas Tesla made them available for free. 
Its still a good initiative though; hopefully it will accelerate other manufacturers' adoption rate! &gt; Tesla made them available for free.

Uhh, not really, no.

http://www.forbes.com/sites/briansolomon/2014/06/12/tesla-goes-open-source-elon-musk-releases-patents-to-good-faith-use/

&gt;will not initiate patent lawsuits against anyone who, in good faith, wants to use our technology.

That's super ambiguous. &gt; That's super ambiguous.

Well, to be fair, that's a press release (direct quote from their blog, actually), not a contract. Check their [legal page](https://www.teslamotors.com/about/legal) for a definition of good faith, or contact Tesla for a patent license. Don't make business decisions based on a press release.

&gt;A party is "acting in good faith" for so long as such party and its related or affiliated companies have not:

&gt;* asserted, helped others assert or had a financial stake in any assertion of (i) any patent or other intellectual property right against Tesla or (ii) any patent right against a third party for its use of technologies relating to electric vehicles or related equipment;

&gt;* challenged, helped others challenge, or had a financial stake in any challenge to any Tesla patent; or

&gt;* marketed or sold any knock-off product (e.g., a product created by imitating or copying the design or appearance of a Tesla product or which suggests an association with or endorsement by Tesla) or provided any material assistance to another party doing so. Lol... I actually have never seen this. What a joke.

So if you use any Tesla patent and then later you both happen to clash on some other patent in an area where you both do research then you lose the right to the old Tesla patent if you challenge Tesla.

And you basically give Tesla the right to use **all your patents**, because you can't assert them against them anymore?

Well, no wonder nobody touches those patents... Yes, it's a joke. He basically offered to trade a small patent portfolio to anyone with a much larger one.  Within the arena of electric vehicles and equipment that directly relates to electric vehicles (I imagine that means things like the plugs used to charge the car, or something). That may or may not relate to batteries; I don't know.

However, this is actually very similar to 'Copyleft' - things like the GNU GPL. The idea of the GPL is that if you make a program, and you link a GPL'd library into your program, your program *must* be open source as well under a 'GPL-compatible' license. This means that if your program has GPL'd code compiled/linked into it, your program has to also be open source.

Tesla is doing the same thing. If you put our technology into your electric cars, your electric car technology is also open. Though open to Tesla, rather than open to everyone. Which, for a business wanting to limit the technology only to themselves, sounds like the same thing. &gt; Within the arena of electric vehicles and equipment that directly relates to electric vehicles 

"asserted, helped others assert or had a financial stake in any assertion of (i) *any patent* or other intellectual property right against Tesla *or* (ii) ..."

Then the next clause loses your Tesla patent rights over "*any* challenge to *any* Tesla patent".

The EV clause only applies to EV patents when 3rd parties sue other 3rd parties when Tesla isn't even involved and it isn't over any of Tesla's patents; they don't want any patent war started because they don't have many patents and will lose big time.  I don't even understand how anybody can misread this much, and you're like to fourth person to post about this... Huh? I think you misread that.

It's basically saying that you can use Tesla's patents as long as you don't challenge Tesla's or any other EV company's ownership to their own patents, and as long as you don't knock off one of Tesla's products.

That's not outrageous at all. &gt;Huh? I think you misread that.

&gt;It's basically saying that you can use Tesla's patents as long as you don't challenge Tesla's or any other EV company's ownership to their own patents, and as long as you don't knock off one of Tesla's products.

&gt;That's not outrageous at all.

I think you misread that. Re-read the first bullet. You can't have asserted your patents against Tesla.  I see, so that's totally useless then. Good faith is very much guided by the *ancient* idea of a *bonus pater familiae*, though some people would take the average man's actions because it's more often used as the standard in cases of guilt, either way what is being put on the table here is *Dolus*). Good faith is not something Tesla can define at their pleasure.

Besides, there is a presumption of good faith and they'd have to prove that whoever is abusing their patents or acting in bad faith is actually doing so.

It's not very ambiguous at all. But still more free than straight up saying you're going to charge a fee in 5 years.

Tesla is simply trying to protect itself from companies cloning their products. You can use their battery patents, sure, but don't use them to make a physical copy of the Model S. &gt; But still more free than straight up saying you're going to charge a fee in 5 years.

Honestly, I prefer the openness/clarity of "we allow you to use our stuff for free for 5 years, after which, we will charge a licensing fee", over "you can use our stuff for free, as long as we're ok with what you do, and we reserve the right to change this deal whenever". To be fair, Ford (and Toyota) also have "the right to change this deal whenever"-- they just didn't make an equivocal statement about it to the press, like Tesla did. Sort of, when you negotiate a license for something (if you're not dumb) you usually have it written out to guarantee that they won't change the deal randomly for X number of years. So Ford and Toyota can't "change this deal whenever".

Also if you look at [this guy's comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/37l3n6/ford_follows_teslas_lead_and_opens_all_their/crnp0gr) then Tesla's deal is a horrible one, since you're essentially swapping patent portfolios, even though Tesla's portfolio is smaller. You're getting downvoted, but from a business standpoint, the former is clearly better. Knowns, even bad knowns, are always better than unknowns that are in your competitor's control. While it's not *exactly* like Tesla did things, it is certainly still progress. Can only hope the trend continues. This headline sounds like it could have been on the front page in 1915.  In all honestly, to anybody who understands how patents and licensing work, this is not some generous thing and not "opening" patents. It's basically telling everybody that Ford's business model now includes licensing their patents (for a fee) instead of *just* using them in house. It's an additional business model.

Remember, patents are already public information, and you can always negotiate to license them from the patent owner. The owner can always say no. Sometimes companies keep them for internal use only (until they expire) to keep competitors out. Sometimes they create mutual IP agreements with collaborators or even competitors to share IP. Sometimes they license into non-competing spaces.

All this announcement says is that they are open to licensing them out, for a fee.

Musk's announcement was similar but didn't mention anything about a fee. (However, he didn't exclude it.) You still need a patent owner's permission to use the patent, and legally speaking that means some sort of license to use it, until it expires of course.

 Tesla didn't open all their electric vehicle patents. They said that anyone can use their patents and they won't sue unless they think you deserve to be sued. This is a useless promise.

And this also doesn't open them, this is an offer to *license* them.

'Ford says there will be a licensing fee.' This is why we can have nice things. Journalists are stupid, so these stories make Elon Musk out to be a philantropist. No he's not. By offering up the patents around charging, he's hoping to make the Tesla charging the overall standard. There are now three standards for speed charging. He wants his to be the new default. In a way the battle is similar to the battle of his company namesake had 100 years ago.  Thanks. Shame I had to look down this far to find someone that knows this, I drive a Model S, I like Tesla and have followed them for many years, long before Musk was CEO but the key reason for "opening" the patents is about control, the opposite of what is claimed. 

There are also some fairly nasty clauses in the terms to use them as well, rather than a license fee, instead you get a sword hanging over your head; do something Tesla doesn't like at a later date, yoink, patent license revoked. It is simply a means of control and some great PR which seems to have worked wonders, especially on Reddit.

Likewise Ford following their lead isn't true, they are just up for licensing some of their patents commercially, like many other companies already do in other industries. 

It's not only journalists that are stupid there are wide sections of Reddit that think Elon Musk is some kind of charity worker, he's a ruthless self promoter and exceptionally good at it.  
   Idk why nobody is saying anything about it in this thread but this was pretty much anticipated, the automobile industry is known for opening its patents.  All over the comments on the thread about tesla opening its patents they said it's just a matter of time because it's typical of the top automobile companies "Ford says there will be a licensing fee."

Oh. I think this needs to be higher. Toyota: Yessss... excellent. Got some new respect for Ford. This will help with advancing EV in my opinion FTA:  "Unlike Tesla, Fords patents will be available for purchase, while Teslas were free and unrestricted."

Update:  https://www.techdirt.com/articles/20150529/06161831144/ford-pretends-to-open-up-patents-like-tesla-doesnt-media-falls-it.shtml Not something I would expect from such a long established corporation.  Neat. Good on them.  Hopefully the rest follow suit. Wait wait wait. Aren't patents *supposed* to be open? Anybody is allowed to look at a patent, they just aren't allowed to copy the design presented. The whole point of patents is to make the information available in a protected way, so that people are *forced* to try something different, thereby making variations on an idea and, hopefully, improvements. But also so that people have available the work that has been done before, so that we don't have everybody reinventing the wheel, so to speak. Patents give a jumping off point.

Or are they saying that they won't litigate their patents, so that people are allowed to freely infringe upon them? Because that's different. patent system was designed so inventors could profit from their inventions for doing all the research coming up with it in the first place. unfortunately its been perverted into a twisted system where even the most mundane things can be patented so that they can be used to troll legitimate uses. this is more to position a company so they do not patent things in the future because its basically a catalouge for the chinese Follow the money.  Is this as 'generous' as it sounds?  *skeptic* Well, they are licencing their patents for a fee, so no. The article is pretty shitty and the headline is just awefull.  My Fords have been great.
If they can build that kind of reliability into electrics then it would be great.
Getting the ideas out there is wonderful!
I hope it is such a success. 
Crappy article, but a good idea. 
 If you have a new technology that you don't want any of your competitors to use, the worst possible thing you can do is file a patent for it. If you've figured out how to do something no one else can do, you keep that shit secret! The only patents that are being filed and "opened" are technologies these companies are already in the process of making obsolete. In the case of Tesla, is sounds like these are supporting technologies (charging) that enrich their existing trade secrets (electric vehicles). Basically, it's a move to create a greater market for their core products. This is not an entirely altruistic venture for Ford, Tesla, or anyone else who has done something similar. They are opening up *their* patents for people to explore and use. Make no mistake, they are not giving up ownership of these patents. If any of it actually takes off then they are going to milk the shit out of it. It's like crowd funding for technology development. Why waste your own time, money, and effort developing something when other people will pay you for the opportunity? People knock US auto manufacturers but Ford really is a stand-up company. I wish they would do a little better with recalls, but that is a global problem; Incl Tesla. Tesla's patents are not open. They maintain the right to enforce them at any point so developing anything that uses that technology would be extremely stupid. Is there a way to browse these patents in a meaningful way? Someone fill me in, but aside from this being a neat business move, what can for possibly offer in ways of technology? As I understand they are so far down the ladder on Ev tech that this is like chrysler opening their patents on the "hemi" Technology and innovation is not new to Ford. I realize we all have just grown up with Ford's around us, but they have been at this since 1901. How long has Tesla been doing it? Tesla is cool, just not joining the circle jerk over this concept. 

 [deleted] I second this, Ford is awesome as a company and an employer.  Okay, a lot of people are severely misunderstanding this article.  Ford isn't allowing others to use the technology for free.  They're just disclosing the inventions publicly before the 18-month required disclosure.  It says in the article they're still going to charge a licensing fee for use of the patents.   and tech news calls bullshit in 3, 2, 1, ...

https://www.techdirt.com/articles/20150529/06161831144/ford-pretends-to-open-up-patents-like-tesla-doesnt-media-falls-it.shtml Ford aren't following Tesla's lead.Tesla opened up all their patents for anyone to use,Ford are just licensing their's out,you have to pay to use them.Which they do anyway.All they done was put a twist on it to get good media
 THey understand that competition is healthy for the market, and a healthy market begets profits. I wish more companies understood this all patents must be usable without permission. in return a percent of the revenue will be given to the patent owner.  &gt;all patents must be usable without permission. in return a percent of the revenue will be given to the patent owner. 

It's nice in theory, but good luck coming up with a way to implement it in a way that makes sense.  The system should be reworked like this but even at the same time some people have patents on stuff that has not even been made yet, so there needs to be many varying degrees of this. Introducing Keurig 3.0 - no DRM restrictions. $14.99 monthly access fee applies. Requires always-on internet connection. Please drink a verification cup. You should post the link http://i.imgur.com/dgGvgKF.png There is an episode of Black Mirror that is a scary more realistic version of this.  Its ep 2 ["Fifteen Million Merits"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fifteen_Million_Merits)  The advertising in that episode makes me shudder. I think that episode and the rewind episode are terrifying for the simple fact that the idea behind the tech seems possible and easy to turn into a negative thing like in the episodes. I can't wait for a new season to come out. It's sci fi done right.  It really is. Even the weakest episode of the series was great. I know American remakes are typically not on the same level of quality, but I'm looking forward to the US series and also Robert Downy Jr.'s film adaptation of "The Entire History of You". &gt;  the US series and also Robert Downy Jr.'s film adaptation of "The Entire History of You".   


I did not know of either of these things. Good to hear. 
 Eh, the only hope I have for the US series is that if they do it like a unique anthology. Although I don't have much looking at the licensee. It'll probably end up in the can with other garbage 1:1 adapts such as Life on Mars, Gracepoint/Broadchurch, and Being Human(which was "Siffy successful", but still bleh compared to the original).

The Downey production could be good, if just in a "grain universe", with a different story about full-time surveillance. I heard about this series and thought "Wow, a new Twilight Zone type show. Cool!" The first episode was bleak, but very thought provoking. "Wow, this is a good show," I thought. And then I watched episode 2. It crushed my soul. The show is awesome, but I don't think I'm strong enough to watch more.   IMO, season 1 ep 2 was the hardest and most disturbing, saddest trap of techno-slavery I ever had my sensibilities assaulted by.  

The rest were not nearly so dreary or humanity-rending.   I thought White Christmas was fucking BLEAK.

They don't throw it in your face, but if you think about the implications it presents it's worse than any nightmare. This makes me want to watch. I definitely recommend it, episode 2 was the first episode I saw and it blew me away. I probably won't ever watch it again, but damn. It is so spot on it is reminiscent of William Gibson's view of the future in Neuromancer, but with a narrower scope and more disturbing.  Is "Black mirror" describing the moments you see yourself in a screen when it goes dark? Yeah, I think that's what they were going for with the name. That one thing that reminds you that you are a human with values and dreams is the vague reflection in a black mirror that has the potential to strip it all away. Yesterday I tell my coworker.. "So I finally finished Daredevil.. I need something new to watch"

He says: Try Black Mirror

I tried Black Mirror.

First episode.. "surely the P.M isn't going to fuck a pig on live tv to save the princess.. this is all a dream/setup/ruse.. the real story will start here shortly.... and i was wrong

I've made it 20 or so minutes into the second episode, and I don't know WHAT THE HELL I AM WATCHING.

Coworker: reddit liked it, so I thought you might

Me: I don't know wtf this is, or what I am watching, and why does a tv show make me feel physically uncomfortable? 
I'll finish this episode ASAP. haha &gt;why does a tv show make me feel physically uncomfortable? 

Because its fucking good! Thats why.  It's like the difference between a good artist and a great artist.   A good artist can make you feel emotions.  A great artist can make you feel whatever emotions they want you to feel! Goddamn I love that.

^(^^Presented ^^by ^^Mountain ^^Dew^^TM) Welcome to Costco, I love you.  Brought to you by Carl's Jr. wow thats some seriously dystopic shit for 4chan. No, that's like... wednesday for 4chins. They do this shit all the time. Read /r/4chan/top there's gold there. Keurig 3.1 will perform a urinalysis and check for competitor's coffee. Please answer this survey before you can continue with your keurig coffee Teabrew just 50 Keuredits.
 
Hazelnut $19.99 per month.

Quickboil unlock code $199

and Introducing Espresso. Part of our Executive plan. 
Just $999 per year. WHY ARE YOU ALL GIVING THEM FREE IDEAS?  I can't help it! I work in marketing! I've become a monster.... 250 ml mode - FREE   
350 ml mode - $5.99   
550 ml mode - $6.99 ***BEST VALUE*** *The shittiest espresso you've ever had, for the price of one really great commercial espresso machine!* I hate it when I have to continuously update my java. Bu dum tiss With a camera for facial recognition authorization.  For your security. I would personally feel more safe knowing that strangers can't break into my house and brew coffee.  FACE NOT RECOGNIZED, USER.  PLEASE INSERT $99.99 FOR ONE GUEST CUP.  YOU WILL BE CHARGED A $59.99 CONVENIENCE FEE, FOR CONVENIENCE.  THANK YOU. Is it sad that I would in no way be surprised if something like this came out? With a 2 year contract. Of course there is a cup limit of 35 cups a month. $5 for each 10 cups after that. Coffee not included.  unlimited brews! *



.* *brew speed throttled after 30 cups* Holy shit could you imagine a network of coffee hooked directly to your home AND COMCAST WOULD STILL RUIN IT You wouldn't download a cup of coffee.... Disable Java updates [deleted] The Starbucks clover machines are cloud connected.  Totally different category of coffee though.   "In our studies, we have found that the average consumer only drinks one coffee a day. In order to save all that quality we've been wasting on coffee you'll never drink, we've decided to cap your monthly coffee intake at 30 cups a month. That way, all of our valued customers get the same hot and steamy cup of coffee. With innovative thinking like this, Keurig plans to stay at the top of the coffee making game ^^^whether ^^^you ^^^like ^^^it ^^^or ^^^not.

It's the Keurig way. :)" But purchase *our* coffee through the Connoisseurs PLUS! package and that coffee won't count toward your cup limit. Just an additional $29.99/mo. the problem is you aren't bundling your coffee and toaster together. If you get the coffee+toast bundle package it's only an extra $10/mo plus service charges. It's a heck of a deal.  Get the Keurig *Triple Play!* today!  Coffee, cream, *and* a coffee grinder, all for the low low price of 2.5X the coffee alone! *"Running late for work because your coffee takes too long to pour? Try our new Keurig Kuantum Speed service! Upgrade from your standard 1oz/3sec speed to 1oz/1sec speed and have a hot cup brewed in only 10 seconds! Restrictions apply. Coverage not available in all areas." *Buffering* Now with new features!  Start your brew from your smart phone!  Connect via Wifi!  Alerts when your coffee is ready!

**Error.  Brew unavailable.  Please update software to continue.**

 Error 418 i am teapot Short and stout? 418 I'm a teapot is a HTTP error code that is designed to be returned when you try to brew coffee over HTCPCP (Hyper Text Coffee Pot Control Protocol) with a teapot. Well TIL. Thanks! Even better, it's in the official [standards](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2324) for the internet.  *App only works when you allow it to post to your Facebook

&gt;**MMMMM... /u/phengineer just brewed some tasty Keurig Coffee. Click here to get started with your own cup!**     Could not complete brewing because Flash is out of date. Click here to update. Your free trial is now over.  Please enter Credit Card number and log in with Facebook to access these premium features. I'm an engineer working on the next gen Keurig machine. The prototype can now take a sip of your coffee and if it's the wrong brand it will simply throw it in your face. Keurig special McDonald's edition DLC. Pre-order now Now you have the ability to download different styles of coffee, but only if you pay for a Keurig 3.0 Live Account. Style packs starting at only $19.99. this is horribly the most accurate thing coming. That's when you buy from a different company that doesn't do that stuff. It's not like no one told them this would happen...
http://www.consumeraffairs.com/news/keurig-20-machines-to-feature-rfid-limited-k-cups-030314.html
They thought people would upgrade to something that does less due to "brand loyalty." Is his entire board room made out of Yes-men? How does that make any sense?

Although some idiots pushed Keurig stock before this came out, claiming it as "game changing," because customers would accept it as a matter of fact somehow thinking that existing k-cups people had oodles of will magically disappear and be never heard of or remembered again.
http://www.fool.com/investing/general/2014/01/29/green-mountains-new-keurig-plan-is-smarter-than-yo.aspx Yeah. This is what I cannot understand. There were thousands of people saying this was a bad idea. On blogs, on Amazon on consumer action sites. It was a REALLY stupid idea. I just can't figure out why they went forward with it.  It's been studied many times, a couple of different things can be culprits but usually it's a culture based on yes man/woman. If you say anything negative, you're branded as not a team player and a negative nancy and pushed out of meetings. So everybody becomes a yes man and terrible ideas make it to the market, because everybody was scared to speak up. 
There is podcast on freakanomics if I remember correctly explaining this phenomenon. Its not just board rooms it's basically every level of corporate life.  Something similar came up in my employee review just two days ago... my managers criticism was that he'd received feedback that I question a lot of policies and practices we have in place at our work sites.  I question them because most of them are redundant,  out dated,  or inefficient  and it's part of my job to find ways to boost efficiency and therefore profitability.  He even admitted that better than half of the objections I raised led to changes for the better....yet it still counted against me in my review.  Had I just kept my mouth shut and gone along the way things were I'd have received a better review and we'd be making less money,  which will lead to layoffs due to lack of efficiency. It really is a no win situation, it just comes down to weighing which downside will hit you the hardest.  Nah, that's when you start in with, "You know, this review process could be way more efficient..." The leading statement when you question things in a corporate environment. 

"Help me understand why..." &lt;this policy is in place&gt; etc. &gt; Had I just kept my mouth shut and gone along the way things were I'd have received a better review and we'd be making less money

Did you point this out to your boss?

If you don't fight the stupidity it will win. The stupidity pays him though In this case yes I did, and had specific examples ready to go, because it was a 1 on 1.  *However*, my boss is not always there in observance, because he's a project manager and I'm a site manager.  He's hearing what people are telling him as feedback.  The real stupidity, in this scenario, is someone that is complaining about my behavior in order to, most likely, make himself look good to our boss.  The boss doesn't know this because he's not there.  He has to take it on account of the guy that wants to look good, even if he thinks he's probably just brown nosing.  Shit like that is exactly how companies do something stupid like put DRM on a plastic cup and lose 12% of their stock price, only on a grander scale.  The guys screaming that it isn't a good idea are seen as complainers or nay sayers, they never get those 1 on 1's because the people that hear about them never meet them and up and up and up. Yep.  They tried to turn it into a product that had more benefits for Kuerig than it had for the consumers - so the consumers went away.  It really is that simple. Yes, if they had ones that adjusted the flow rate and temperature to make it better, it might have been better received. I have watched that process gut my entire company.  If you disagreed with our old CEO and that raging cunt didn't like it you lost more than meeting invites, you clean ed out your desk.


Even little things like ergonomic device design, something she knew nothing about, if you pointed out a better alternative she saw it as a sign of disrespect.  She thought she was going to become the next Steve jobs or something, her rich husband payed her way into our board through the investment agency that owned our majority, which was another bunch of crookedness.


Fucking dark times glad she's gone and were a privately owned company.
 Consumers complain about a lot of things and never follow through. DLC exists because at the end of their day of complaining on the internet customers fork over the money for it anyway.

The problem for keurig wasn't that they ignored their consumers, but that they underestimated the extent to which this would piss people off and actually make them follow through on their words. I couldn't have been the only one sending them angry emails over a year ago...getting some bullshit excuse in response from them.  They knew what was going to happen and still played it for the cunts they are.  I *will not* drink printer ink. I won a free Keurig, but I can only afford to make ramen with it. We have one at work, greatest instant water heater I've ever seen used. The amount of cup-o-soup made on that machine is impressive.  My Keurig has never even seen a k-cup/coffee. It's been used for heating water for tea only.  YOu know you can go to the store and buy a water heater for like 15 bucks right?  Is a keurig really 10 times better?  The one I've got can heat a coffee mug full of near boiling water in less than a minute. Expensive Keurig in breakroom... not being used. Ready to make hot water at the touch of a button, why not?

At least it'll be useful.  My business school class did a case study on how this might affect Keurig a few years ago. Consensus: Epic fail.  FTA:

&gt;We underestimated the passion the consumer had for this," Kelley told analysts on a call Wednesday evening.

Translation: We thought people were stupid enough to screw them up the ass and they'd take it. Oops, we were wrong! Bringing back the My K-cup accessory does not equate to allowing competitors K-Cups work in your machine.   "Quite honestly, we were wrong. We underestimated the passion the consumer had for this," (said the president of the company)

'Quite honestly, we forgot consumers were not rats locked in mazes with money that rightfully belonged to us. We overestimated our ability to manipulate them at our whim.'

FTFY "Quite honestly, I'm just saying this because I think the consumers *are* stupid enough to believe it. I'm not sorry at all. I just want you to give me your money again." There's a big difference between being sorry and being sorry you got caught. "Aw, that's cute" - Tim Cook

Now if you'll excuse me I need to find a micro-USB converter for my iPhone 5. I have the iPhone 4 micro-USB converter on my desk but I can't seem to find the other one. 

*fixed mini/micro. Now if you'll excuse me I need to update a huge 50kb file on my floppy Don't be silly. If Tim Cook can't find his iPhone cable, he just opens a drawer and unwraps a new iPhone. Gets a high off the "unboxing experience." I would run the company into the ground peeling off all the screen protectors.  Out of all things we can hate Apple, them upgrading their charging cable after sticking nearly 10 years with the 30 pin connector is not one of them.  But we can still hate them for upgrading it to another properietary connector instead of USB like all other phones. Mini-USB? Did the iPhone 5 come out in 2006? Don't forget greedy, you are also greedy. Might even throw in a smattering of stupid.  Fiscally myopic, I'd say. I get it, you don't like people making knock-offs. That's fair.

The solution was never to DRM the machines, but to increase the cost of your machines to the point where profit didn't come from extortion. Or maybe, and I'm just spit-balling here, to add actual value rather than hobble the devices your customers paid top dollar for. Well, they were shooting for the whole Razor Blade model where the machines are cheap and the pods/refills are expensive. This does not work when competitors can release cheap "blades" for you to use in Keurig machines. So I get their approach and I get their logic. 

The problem is coffee is a bit of a weird product: on one hand you have groups of people who view it as a commodity. I don't care what kind of coffee I have, I just want decent cheap coffee. On the other hand you have people who are very particular about their coffee. I want and only drink X brand and Y flavor. Putting DRM on the pods really prevents both groups from being happy. A casual coffee drinker like myself will fall into the first group and not want to pay a premium for coffee. Just let me buy cheap pods and go. Conversely, someone who is very particular about their coffee may want an offering outside of the DRM offered pods and thus the whole machine become useless to them.

*Edit*: it is being brought to my attention that the machines actually arnt all that cheap. Maybe so, but still, their model is still cut from the same cloth as Gillette. Get people to buy your base product and then earn your margin on the reloadable/disposable part. Maybe Kurieg earns a bit more on the actual maker itself as compared to a razor, but it is the same theory. Get people on your platform and then keep them on it. DRM was an attempt to lock people into their platform. I reacted the same way with Keurig as I did expensive razors: I switched to a Wahl trimmer and a single cup french press.

As a consumer, nothing makes me angrier than trying to force me to overpay. I will simply abandon your product. How do you shave with a French press?  If you have to ask, you're not ready And don't try guessing either.  That's how I ended up with an ER visit to get those three sea shells removed. Hah! This guy doesn't know how to use the three seashells!  Try an aeropress. Tastes as good if not better, an easier to clean.  Aeropress is awesome... the right temperature water with good beans makes for some really tasty cups. I'm lazy now and I use my Nespresso machine most of the time because a friend hooks me up with tons of free nespresso pods. But sometimes if I'm not too tired, the aeropress is still used and it does make better coffee. Know what I did?  I grew a beard and I just quit drinking coffee.  EVEN CHEAPER. I used to own a bowl, but I threw it out when I saw a kid drinking from a fountain with his hands. The only problem is, people that are truly finicky about their coffee aren't gonna get a Keurig anyway. Keurigs look nice on your kitchen counter. That's where the appeal ends for most people. They don't care what coffee it spits out, as long as it's not overpriced. That's what the generic cups were for. Not expensive coffee, but for cheap $6.99/33oz coffee Seriously. My parents got one because everyone has one. They never use it. But it does look nice. I am the only one who uses it, and I use it without a pod to get hot water, to then brew my tea in a tea bag.

I drink Twinings English Breakfast, which comes in pods. But the price per pod is like $0.60 on Amazon, whereas the bags are like $0.06. The tea pods don't get brewed for shit in the Keurig, anyway.  This model works swimmingly for printer and razor companies. Of course they were going to try it They didn't ease into it the same way.

HP launched the ink wars with a vastly superior product. Keurig didn't have that. Razors went by inches rather than yards, and they all marched in lock step. There was no other option.

Brewed coffee is still better than Keurig, and competitors can field cheaper, better (seemingly) identical products.

They just started believing in their own mythos, and that was the problem. They are not a precious snowflake. They are barely unique. They can be replaced without anyone batting an eye. With both industries there's a bit of a push back today. Toner printers are now quite popular and shaving with double edge razors has gotten to a point where I see double edge blades at every Walgreens/CVS I've gone to for the last year or so. They're way overpriced as to not cut into the cartridges too much, but still an option. On Amazon you can get a year supply of blades for $10.  I started shaving with a safety razor last year and haven't gotten an ingrown hair once. With the Gillette tinfoil razors I constantly had bumps. I bought 100 blades for ~~$10~~ $14. They only last for 3-4 shaves, but it's still something like a twentieth of the cost of proprietary razors. And you can choose your own blade hardness.

The learning curve was a bit sharp (heh), but it's been so worth it.

Edit: Misremembered the price. Keurigs are ridiculously popular in office places, and offer convenience that is vastly superior to brewed coffee. It wasn't about quality of the drink, it was about the convenience of getting the drink. 

The issue isn't that they earned a defacto standard, it was that they weren't making enough money on the licensing. They should have lowered licensing fees for Keurig branding to the point where it would be foolish not to pay. 

As it stands, a box of Keurig Starbucks k-cups at Costco is close to $1/cup, which is pretty ridiculous. No wonder everyone is going with alternative formats (including more eco-friendly ones). like they say if you're going to piss off the market, you'd better be damn sure you've cornered it first. no matter how popular they are people are going to take the first easy alternative when dissatisfied with what they have.

they didn't even try to play the long game with cup licensing once they put all their faith in those readers, if they had the foresight to create a mutually beneficial market they probably wouldn't have done it this way to begin with &gt;Keurigs are ridiculously popular in office places, and offer convenience that is vastly superior to brewed coffee.

That's exactly it.  The machines require nearly no maintenance or cleaning.  I was hesitant when they brought in the machine but it's proven to be worth it in every way.  Not a fan of how terrible the packaging is though.  The distributor is proud of their "recycling" program with the slogan of "turn those k-cups back into energy" aka burn them.  Not impressed.  But I'd much rather poison the earth than have to clean the rancid coffee beans out of the hoppers on the old machine. *high-fives Mr Coffee* &gt;This model works swimmingly for printer and *razor companies*

I love Gillette's new campaign of "You can shave for a dollar a day when you buy our shit at Wal-Mart" to try and combat Dollar Shave Club. 

$6 a month or $30 a month? Hmmm... that's a tough one. FYI, you can get Dollar Shave Club's razors for 1/3 the price. They're just a reseller putting it in a well-marketed pretty package. http://lifehacker.com/5903771/forget-dollar-shave-clubbuy-the-same-high-quality-razors-for-a-third-of-the-price Thanks for the link. Much appreciated. 
 DRM in this case is simply a way to exclude yourself from competition. They're using their position in the coffee MAKER market to create an anti-competitive coffee market. The solution is to make a reasonable profit on everything you sell, and dump the razor blades model.

The problem is, of course, that business in the 21st century is completely sold on the razor blade model. If you can't follow that model, you're not going to become the next Wall Street darling. Nobody's interested in steady, long term viable brand building and modest profits. The thing I'm seeing is every business these days seems set on the next quarter rather than the next decade. Amazon seems to have been going counter to the trend of appeasing shareholders for a while. Any profit they made went immediately right back into the business for infrastructure or research costs. For a while they were actually losing money because of this. It was only pretty recently that they actually started reporting a profit. Reporting a profit is key word . Amazon is very profitable they are in the monopoly business Make your money off the machines, drive down the cost of the cups, put the knock offs out of business. The trouble with that is that a machine is a big outlay but the more something costs the more sensitive people are to the price. So if you are going to ~~rip people off~~ make good profits, your best bet is often to sell something cheap with a high profit margin many times, rather than something expensive with a high profit margin once. You are generally correct, but there's one company that immediately comes to mind that has managed to excel at selling expensive, high-margin products: Apple. I'm glad the CEO has the balls to say this. If they reverse their direction I'd support their company with a huge non literal banner championing the cause.

Why? Not because I love coffee, but I'm worried where the trend is taking us.

The idea that auto makers recently were talking about having cars locked with DRM so we can't do our own maintenance is rather terrifying if we think about how much control we'd hand over to companies. Let alone infuriating, when we consider the investment cost of a vehicle would be a virtual lease no matter what. If you buy a car, you should have the right to modify and do repairs! 

DRM is NOT something we can sit by and let happen in all industries. It's bad enough in gaming, I know most of Reddit readers can relate to that! I'm with you.  Others have poo-poo'd the CEOs comments, but look, if they are going to respond to demand, then great.

Give the customer what they want.  Change course if you're wrong.  Profit (if you can change course in time).
 Sometimes I think some redditors forget that you can be wrong, but not nefarious. People screw up - writing them off forever or deciding they're greedy or evil or (insert label) isn't productive.

Plus, some redditors are pretty sore winners - everyone shit all over Tom Wheeler, and when he turned out not to be the boogie man they thought, did they admit they were wrong? No, they declared victory. &gt;deciding they're greedy or evil or (insert label) isn't productive

Well, I mean, they literally produced a second generation of coffee maker that was designed to do *less* than the previous one in hopes of getting people to buy their own stuff instead of competitors'. That's pretty dang greedy.

That said, I support turn-arounds. If a company changes direction for the better, I'll support them in hope that more companies follow suit. As greedy as the company may be, this whole product is a testament to how little consideration consumers have for the environment when presented with a convenience.  I really hope that they keep making stupid decisions so that the whole product line dies out. I wonder if stocks would go up if a company admitted "We fucked up!" when the rest of the world knew, instead of waiting until it's completely obvious and barely relevant anymore?  Tylenol did a voluntary product recall in the 80's (as in no one made them do it), and it cost the company upwards of $100 million. I don't know about the stock prices, but IIRC, their market share actually increased since their reputation among consumers really benefited from this.  It was a major voluntary recall, but the context reveals why it was necessary; in 1982 someone in Chicago was *injecting cyanide into tylenol capsules* and trying to extort money to stop. As a result, Tylenol did the right thing and added the seals to help identify compromised product. Certainly turned into a net positive for them.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicago_Tylenol_murders That was a pretty unprecedented recall at the time too. They pulled 31 million bottles off the shelves and replaced them with tamper proof packaging which became the industry norm from then on. They went from 31% market share to 7% around the time of the recall then back up to 30% in the course of a year. That is a PR/management triumph. 

 Some companies could really learn from this. I think Domino's pizza did something similar.

Well... they didn't really do anything *wrong*, but they did not sugar coat the reason they changed their recipe. Except that didn't cost them any money - there wasn't any "sacrifice" being made for the good of the consumer. That was just straight up marketing and PR.  &gt;"Quite honestly, we were wrong. We underestimate the passion the consumer had for this,"

I'll never understand how this happens. How could any manufacturer not understand that potential customers simply won't support a product that feels like it's still owned by the manufacturer? When we buy something, we want to be able to use it without being constrained by artificial barriers intentionally placed by the manufacturer. This is super simple stuff that should go without saying. It happens because their internal studies predict 2% of customers will care and that turned out to be 30%. I believe this is all the result of the software business. Businesses have all seen software companies somehow convince everyone (at least in the U.S.) that you don't *own* the product you paid for. These days, if you buy a piece of software, you only have a *license* to use it, so they can dictate how and when you use it, otherwise they take it away and you're screwed.

Other markets see this and want the same deal. Keurig tried to DRM its coffee machine. John Deere is trying to tell people they are only "licensing" the tractors they bought. It's ridiculous. They expected people to get mad and leave, probably figured it in to the decision and thought it would still be profitable but underestimated the number.  It's not about them being entirely blind to the fact that people might not like DRM coffee, it's about estimating their pull in the market and seeing how much they can get away with.  It's not great for the consumer, but it makes sense from the business perspective - you should try and get as much as your customer's money as you can.  The problem with their implementation is that they went too far, and it appears they lost more business/market share than they gained in money squeezed from consumers. This is what you have to know about corporations.  'Right and wrong' has nothing to do with morality and everything to do with stock price.  If they behave poorly, it's because the consumers reward them.  If you want them to stop, don't give them your business. The title has it backwards. Stock drops 12%, *therefore* they must have done something wrong. Doesn't give a shit about the business ethics side. yeah, I first thought that the drop followed the announcement. Which would also make sense; think shareholder like the idea of abandoning broken DRM? I can hear them now at the shareholder meeting "don't abandon it, just make it better; there has to be a way to make DRM that cannot be circumvented!" Few people know the actions of the corporations they patronize. It's virtually impossible to avoid contributing to some or knowing where your money goes.  Stock price is a stupid thing to optimise a company for.  What more stupid is optimizing it based on tomorrow's stock prices instead of 5 or 10 years away's stock price. I agree, but that's what is taught in business schools across the world.  It's also the metric by which most of the C-suite is judged, and when the leadership gears their focus to maximizing the metric on which they are judged, the rest of the company follows suit.   It's not what's taught, it's what's legally required of the fiduciaries of the company. If you want to maximize something other than shareholder value you can start/work at/patronize entities other than a publicly-traded corporation, of which there are many. 

Loads of legal citations for this principle: http://www.professorbainbridge.com/professorbainbridgecom/2014/05/critiquing-naked-capitalisms-critique-of-the-shareholder-wealth-maximizatopn-norm.html Actually, it's a myth that you must legally maximize shareholder profits. [It stems from a misinterpretation of *Dodge v. Ford*](http://www.corporatepolicy.org/2012/03/25/are-corporations-required-to-maximize-profits/) that keeps getting taught for some reason. Lawyer here. You're technically correct, but I think people might misunderstand what you're saying. Corporate folks (e.g., the Board of Directors) absolutely do have a fiduciary responsibility to do *what's in the best interest of* the shareholders. This means that while they don't have to maximize shareholder value EXCLUSIVELY (they can, for instance, still engage in charitable giving on behalf of the company), for all practical purposes this is what they are supposed to be doing.

The court in Dodge v. Ford came down the way it did because Henry Ford *explicitly disavowed* a profit motive, and said he just wanted to help his workers by paying them more. We were taught that the court actually really wanted to rule the opposite way, and if Ford had simply said that he also thought it would help the company it would have done so. But, in the simplest sense, Ford said that he was putting the interests of his factory workers **above** those of his shareholders, to whom he has fiduciary duties, so the court couldn't rule any other way.

**TLDR**: It is mostly NOT a myth that fiduciaries must maximize shareholder profits, or at least have a colorable claim of doing so. To call it a "myth" is unfair...even if you don't read Dodge to state that shareholder profits must be maximized, it still upholds the business judgment rule, which, in part, means that a fiduciary has a duty to protect shareholder value and may be said to do so, as long as she uses her best judgment to care for the long term viability of the corporation, even if the effect is different in the short term. "we were wrong" means "that didn't prove profitable" &gt; "Quite honestly, we were wrong. We underestimated the passion the consumer had for this,"

... This is an insane cop-out. What does it matter how much passion consumers had for this? What is "this"? When you implement a DRM system, the *only* thing you are doing is *intentionally harming consumers*. You underestimated how much passion consumers had for *not being intentionally harmed*? Holy fuck, I just want a half pot of coffee so I can get ready to hate my life at work without any trouble.  John Deere can learn from this... Unfortunately, John Deere doesn't have to. It works well for them because most of their competition does this shit as well.

Keurig has to compete with dozens of alternative methods that are brain dead simple, the only reason they've succeeded thus far is by putting out a product that is (arguably) faster and easier than traditional brewing methods. Adding DRM took that away for a lot of people. This is the best tl;dr I could make, [original](http://money.cnn.com/2015/05/06/investing/keurig-green-mountain-earnings-stock-fall/index.html) reduced by 74%. (I'm a bot)
*****
&gt; The company had a lot of excuses, but the basic problem is there are too many Keurig machines in stores and people aren&amp;#039;t buying them, especially the newest Keurig 2.0 model.

&gt; The biggest frustration for customers is that the 2.0 model only brews Keurig branded coffee cups.

&gt; &amp;quot;I think the Keurig is a great machine but it is a HUGE SHAME that the company decided to remove the ability to use your own coffee grounds in the home brew k-cup,&amp;quot; a top reviewer on Amazon.com wrote.


*****
[**Extended Summary**](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/356sxd/keurig_ceo_on_coffee_pod_drm_we_were_wrong/) | [FAQ](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31b9fm/faq_autotldr_bot/ "Version 1.5, ~15913 tl;drs so far.") | [Theory](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31bfht/theory_autotldr_concept/) | [Feedback](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%23autotldr "PMs and comment replies are read by the bot admin, constructive feedback is welcome.") | *Top* *five* *keywords*: **Keurig**^#1 **coffee**^#2 **company**^#3 **brew**^#4 **machine**^#5

Post found in [/r/technology](/r/technology/comments/3567td/keurig_ceo_on_coffee_pod_drm_we_were_wrong_stock/), [/r/TechNewsToday](/r/TechNewsToday/comments/356fim/keurig_ceo_brian_kelley_on_their_20_model_drm/), [/r/realtech](/r/realtech/comments/3567vf/keurig_ceo_on_coffee_pod_drm_we_were_wrong_stock/), [/r/business](/r/business/comments/356raz/keurig_green_mountain_gets_roasted_stock_drops_10/) and [/r/DailyTechNewsShow](/r/DailyTechNewsShow/comments/356fhy/keurig_ceo_brian_kelley_on_their_20_model_drm/). You're a useful little bot! Seems like an example of a great product being ruined by greed. Nobody could have predicted this. 

Wait, not nobody, the other thing.....


Ah, everybody. Everybody could have predicted this.  there was a reason why i didnt buy keurig 2.bullshit Exactly - we have a Keurig 1 and use a stainless steel filter so we can use any coffee we want.

When reading about the 2 before it came out, we both agreed we wouldn't be getting one when our machine died.

Now there are other competitors too so we will be looking at all of those before we make our next purchase. 

 The only thing Keurig needed to do was make their cups biodegradable or recyclable. Instead they made them more profitable. Also more brewing style options would have been nice. They didn't do anything but make it more restrictive. Wtf keurig.  Yeah the amount of non recyclable trash Keurig style coffee cups generate is crazy. I read an estimate in an Atlantic article saying the cups thrown away in 2014 alone would circle the earth a dozen times. I can't even wrap my head around that. Well, you'd have to have a pretty big head. How does your filter work for you with your keurig? It seems like every time I use it my coffee tastes watered down. I've tried filling the thing all the way... packing it in.. nothing fixes this. Plus it usually spits water all over the place. Last month my Keurig crapped out after 5 years. Thanks to their bullshit, I bought an Aeropress and couldn't be happier. It's single cup coffee that's hard to screw up, tastes better, and takes just as long to make as my Keurig.  Reddit Headline:

&gt; stock drops 12%

Article Headline:

&gt; Stock drops 10%

did it drop more in the time it took OP to submit this? If you google the headline with 12% all kinds of sites reposting the news will come up with 12%. Only the original CNN article states 10% now. I guess they changed it from 12% so 10% after posting, but after OP posted it here. The real headline should be:

&gt;Shares are now down more than 25% this year. I actually pulled up the stock price data instead of theorizing:

It is currently down 6.9%
After hours yesterday, it was down almost 22%
The stock opened up this morning about down 12.5%. 
When OP submitted the article, it was almost exactly 12%. 
I can't tell the time the article was submitted, but it seems like every one is right here. [Freedom Clip](http://www.rogersfamilyco.com/index.php/freedom-clip/) ftw? We were wrong.....only because we couldn't con you into losing convenience or 3rd party coffee pods, and our shareholders are less rich this year.   Yeah, nobody could see that coming... DRM is anti-consumer, so consumer hostile, arrogant and money grubbing behavior. Of course people are annoyed and don't want to give them their business.

You can be money-grubbing in capitalism, if you don't piss people off with obvious and rampant greed. Keurig failed there. I got the 2.0 for Christmas, 'twas my first Keurig.

I used the 20 or so pods that came with it and then I bought a refillable one. NOPE didn't work. I was pissed.

A quick search of the YouTube and hacked the damn thing (cut a blue wire inside) and love it. 

So if anyone has one - simple hack and good as gold!  Too much work.  For a while Roger's Family Coffee was giving these away and now they're included in their boxes.

https://www.gourmet-coffee.com/Keurig-DRM-Freedom-Clip.html Care to share a link? 

I've only found ones that use magnets, tops of old cups, etc. There is absolutely no excuse for "underestimating" the pushback that the DRM would cause, unless you don't have the ability to read.  This is a CEO who needs to be pushed out. &gt;We underestimated the passion the consumer had for this

No shit. People were only saying this was shit for over a year before this thing even launched. But this didn't make it through his thick skull until it started burning a hole in the company's pockets. 

I don't get how someone being paid millions of dollars doesn't understand that, unless you have a government sanctioned monopoly, dicking your customers over is very likely to come back and bite you in the ass.  When will these companies realize that controlling how people use your product once they have bought it will never ever fucking work. I don't know of one instance where DRM worked for the company in a good way. 

Hi greedy corporations, pay me millions to consult you and I'll fill you in on a secret, 

People don't like being told what to do with something they purchased and own.  Hopefully the same thing ends up happening to other DRM reliant companies. DRM works where it makes sense, like Netflix or Steam.  It doesn't make sense in a damned coffee maker. My god damn DRM toilet was the worst purchase ever. If I don't use the right toilet paper and have the acceptable amount of Mt dew in my pee it won't flush.  PLEASE DRINK A VERIFICATION CAN! Really? "Oh, we didn't know you guys would be pissed off at this, so sorry, our bad." Jesus fuck dude. If I used that kind of excuse at my job I'd be shit canned faster than an adequate analogy describing just how fast I'd be shit canned.

I've seen so many companies do this. "Oh, shit, we didn't know people actually don't *like* DRM. Opps." It's not rocket appliances man. NO ONE ON EARTH likes DRM, and no one ever will. Not even the people that work for your shitty company like the DRM they're shoving up their customer's asses. What makes you think that the one time you do it, it'll go over smoothly? Never mind that,  have they made the damned wasteful things biodegradable yet?  Third parties do but of course Keurig doesn't want you to use those. I replaced my Keurig with a Nespresso and it's awesome. The pods are aluminum and they run a recycling program. You can get a free latte when you bring in your used pods. "Yo, you know what we got here? We got an elastic product. You know what that means? That means when people can go ELSEWHERE and get their [drip coffee and single serve cups] they gon' do it. You acting like we got an *inelastic* product and we **don't**!"

-- [Stringer Bell, Keurig CEO](http://i.imgur.com/k2vPau1.jpg) "Still, the company lowered its financial projections for 2015, citing the challenges of the "complex product transition." 

That should read "The Company was forced to lower their financial projections due to the Company's arrogant disregard for their customers and what they want."

If the clowns at Keurig were REALLY sorry, they'd make the work-around for the Keurig 2.0's 'special' k-cups available to anyone who asked for it, free of charge. Imagine this philosophy on a wider scale....

Imagine if Ford cars only took Ford brand gasoline.

Imagine if GE ovens only took GE approved foods.

Imagine if Apple devices only took Apple chargers... oh wait. I think a better comparison would be if Apple devices only took Apple electricity.  Electricity is more of a consumable in a manner similar to K-Cups than a charger (buy once, maybe twice). The larger world shrugs off draconian gaming DRM because it's just those dirty teenagers and their games. You put draconian DRM between middle class adults and their coffee and suddenly you have a pretty serious issue. You knew you were wrong, yet you still tried it Here's a crazy idea for businesses: Now, I'm shooting in the dark on this one but it just might work. How about...(man, this is so crazy. I'm almost embarrassed to type it)..how about you fucking listen to your customers BEFORE you bring your stupid idea to market??

 I had nearly broken down to buy one of these (we have one in the office, so I thought it would be great to have one at home). I did the math and the per-cup cost was stupid, but the convenience is great, and for things like hot Apple Cider it's actually cheaper (these cost like $4 a cup if you find some place serving it). Sure, you could make it at home if you wanted a gallon of hot cider, but for an afternoon treat it's like 50 cents and takes no time. Same with things like hot cocoa, etc. Also, if you wait for sales and such you can pick up the cups at extreme discount.

You can argue with all the above, but the point is I'd finally rationalized myself into deciding I was going to grab one, I was researching which model even, and then they pulled this shit. Fuck these guys. Just buy an aeropress and be done with the cups. My wife and her friend(both web designers and graphic designers) spent an hour one day photoshopping the DRM label and affixing it to the lazer scanner in their 2.0 in the office so it works everytime. It's not that hard to bypass. Just needs to fit in there right Last Christmas, I stopped a purchase of a 2.0 machine as a gift.  My sister in law had no idea about the DRM.  She gave my niece a traditional drip machine instead. Incredible how everyone that wants to practice DRM and make you pay for shit is always wrong.  You think they'd be right once or twice off sheer probability. Or failing that, learn from history that people hate DRM, and it NEVER leads to more sales. Somebody needs to fire the CEO and all responsible for the decision to make a DRM coffee machine ASAP. The shareholders should pressure the board to do this for this shamefull clustertfuck.. Nobody is going to do that because the decision for the DRM was wrapped in a value-add and protecting keurig's revenue stream by not allowing all the third party brewers to continue making pods without paying royalties to Keurig.

I'm pleasantly surprised that people didn't put up with it though. A lot of times, people will put up with stuff like this because the cost difference isn't that big. But, from what I understand, the cost difference between official k-cups and the knockoff is quite a bit.

Don't have one, so I don't really know. It's an eclectic kettle and instant coffee...with a ton of plastic waste It's not instant coffee like those awful crystal abominations. It's just a much, much smaller pot. The cups contain the grounds and a filter, just enough for a single cup. I do agree with the waste statement though, these things are extremely wasteful. It seems like every business these days, no matter how big or small, is trying to nickle and dime me for every penny  I have.  This is why you do a test audience before taking any really big steps like embracing DRM. Find out how much people are going to hate your bright ideas, then release them. It's worth millions. The boardroom fuckups at Keurig don't deserve their jobs.

One of the things that infuriates me is that million dollar positions at big companies are generally seating idiots that don't know what the fuck they are doing. &gt; CEO Brian Kelley says he's listening to consumers and is ready to make changes. The biggest frustration for customers is that the 2.0 model only brews Keurig branded coffee cups.

&gt;"Quite honestly, we were wrong. We underestimated the passion the consumer had for this," Kelley told analysts on a call Wednesday evening. 


This is what you call "being hanged on your own petard."


The dumb fuck CEO signed off on the DRM for peoples' coffee.

You fucked with peoples' coffee.  People won't let you fuck with their coffee.

In a just world they'd actually, you know, remove the DRM.  Nothing in the OP's link that they did that.  They will bring back the self-load k-cup, but that's it apparently.  

So f them.  They were lucky people went with convenience over price to begin with.  Once they became greedy, the public said screw this shit we're out.


Edit: Hoisted!  Thanks! "That Comcast-sponsored customer satisfaction seminar seemed like a good idea. We were wrong." *You wouldn't download a cup of coffee* This is what happens when companies get greedy. They overerestimate their customers' loyalty and end up trying to cover their ass.  Keurig is the Metallica of coffee makers. Had so much promise but really were just a bunch of whiny Napster hating birches This is what happens when you try to fuck a stranger in the ass. &gt;"Quite honestly, we were wrong. We underestimated the passion the consumer had for this,"

In translation: "People aren't as dumb as we thought they were." We need to praise senators willing to fight against mass surveillance. Anybody got a list of senators who have announced similar resentment? Warren, Sanders, Paul

Edit: Obviously there are a few more. But these 3 are the only(most) vocal about it. It is a short list. A short list, atleast there is a list at all of senators willing to fight it. **Feinstein is willing to protest domestic spying***




  ^(* But only when it's on myself -Feinstein.) I remember seeing that on the news. She thinks the patriot act is great, until she found out the CIA was spying on congress. Hypocrites.  Snowden should have released the tracking on congress members.  Ehhh. With Hoover in the past and things like his "sex deviants" spying, I'm sure they already know they are being watched. At least if they read any history from the last 80 years they should.  It's Congress, I'm not convinced they can read. Well he was a little busy at the time, trying to stay out of jail before the government got him. Trying to stay not dead* He probably did release it to the news team. He handed a lot over and said release what you see fit.  First off, I can't stand Feinstein. But, to be fair, she didn't have a problem with them spying on Congress as a bloc. The problem was they were spying on Senate committee members who had oversight of the CIA, and who were also performing an investigation. 

So it appeared that the CIA/NSA was trying to dig up dirt on those with oversight in an attempt to blackmail them out of continuing their investigation.

At least that's how it looked to me. Even the people you hate are right sometimes.  I don't think it was "dig up dirt" it was more "the CIA/NSA was trying to follow around investigators to see where/what they were investigating."

In this case it was more "we spied on you and realized you had a document we weren't supposed to give you, so we took it back without telling you." I think this is the biggest problem that lack of actual NSA oversight poses. It's bad enough that our elected leaders are already beholden to lobbyists whose bribes are veiled thinly, but if an organization could spy on every individual politician, that organization would own those politicians. But if they're spying on Congress as a bloc., then by definition they're spying on anyone who has the power to investigate them. By spying on the American public, they're spying on anybody who will potentially ever have the power to investigate them. That's my problem with it too. If you can spy on everybody then you have control over everybody.  "The only gun that should be legal is the gun that protects me."

-Feinstein

 That woman is an embarrassment to my state and humanity.   The only republicans I've ever voted for have been her opponents. In an alternate universe she's a librarian, blacking out the dirty words in books. Oh, I preferred the librarian in my home town who used to use a blue pencil to underline the objectionable material.  It truly saved us all hours of unnecessary reading. Cookbooks, specifically. Cumquat is salacious! Don't disparage librarians like that, they are [on our side.](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-switch/wp/2014/10/03/librarians-wont-stay-quiet-about-government-surveillance/) And social liberals. She was a hero for gay rights here in Ca but I would never vote for her.  I'm a dyed-in-the-wool Democrat and even I hate that woman.  I don't support spying on civilians (and other stupid positions she has taken) and from a legal perspective, the problem with spying on civilians  (violation of the 4th ammendment) is perhaps no different when they spy on a Senator's personal communications, but when they take the further step of spying on and manipulating the official business of a sitting Senator, then it _also_ violates the underlying principle of checks and balances at the _foundation_ of our Constitution.

If, **just hypothetically**, you supported the domestic spying on civilians and it were Constitutional, that would not automatically make it okay for them to apply the same treatment to the official business of the courts and the legislature.

The reason for this distinction is important. The Patriot Act, the NSA dragnet, etc. could still, in principle, be overturned by the other two branches of government! Moreover, if I recall correctly, Feinstein's complaint was about their interference in an investigation of the very program in question! How is that not worse?

What troubles me most is this attitude of yours and others. I get it. They should _NOT_ have the power to use the NSA to collect data on civilians in violation of the 4th amendment -- and they definitely should not be allowed to pass that data on to law enforcement to reconstruct a case as if it were based on legally obtained evidence. But using the same power to impede an investigation into the use of that power by a separate but equal branch of government _is_ worse. Treating it like the same thing is cutting of your head to spite your face. I despise that woman And incomplete list...even Ted Cruz is against it as it is currently written. They said they are unlikely to get the 60 votes needed to overcome the proposed filibuster should it happen. Assume this means nearly half of the senate is against this. I get it everybody loves what warren and sanders say, but reddit really needs to pump the breaks on its crush for them. Believe it or not they aren't the only people trying to do good. It's like all of reddit is brainwashed because the only articles posted on here are about them.  I feel it's a rational reaction. We don't see these types of people trying to make a change like this for the interest of the constituents not the corporations and banks.  &gt; Ted Cruz is against it **as it is currently written**

Do you know which parts he finds objectionable and which he agrees with?
 whatever part is the least popular at any given time While it shows a lack of conviction, a willingness to bend to public pressure is nice to see in a pol. It's not uncommon to them to double down on stupid.

I also think he's a little shit so don't think I'm giving him any meaningful praise here either. Actually hell no.  Complete opposite. These people are trying to make genuine change. And now one of then just happens to be running for president where he will spend a lot more time than usual in main stream media espousing his views about things. Now is not the time to control the boner that reddit has. Now is not the time to stop dreaming and being realistic. Don't do it reddit. Dream away instead. There is a clear difference between anybody that the two parties throw at us and sanders. The 2 main party's candidates will keep us divided on stupid ideological differences while the real main issues slip out from under us. Now is not the time to cut back. Support them. Don't be too overbearing I guess and piss people off, but it is not the time to roll back the support coz there's other people trying to affect change as well. How many of those people are running for president?? No. No. This is the moment to go up to the roof, take off our boxers and whip out that boner for the benefit of everyone!!!!!  As an aside, actually two people on that list are running for president.  Both Bernie Sanders and Rand Paul are running. Is it perhaps because they are simply the loudest voices? Don't forget Amash and Massie.

Edit: Also there are definitely some lesser known dems I'm forgetting. I come from a red state so I am more familiar with the Republican Party than I'd like to admit on reddit. 

I've just found common ground is the optimal place to start in political conversations. Justin Amash although I often disagree with him is a fucking credit to humanity as a whole, he's taken it upon himself as a young (relative to congress) person to hold himself accountable to his constituency and his country. He explains every single vote he makes online and makes a huge effort to explain the bills and his positions on them. 

Like I said I often disagree with him but I would vote for him in a second just because he seems like a genuinely good person. Agreed. On virtually every count. It seems like I might agree with him slightly more often than you do, but I still take issue with some of the planks in his platform I agree with him a lot on small government but not at all on social and economic issues which is a steady trend for my relationship with Libertarians/Traditional Republicans. The holy reddit trinity The 4th triumvirate.  Wait, where did the 3rd go? To the Reich. I always found it strange that they would limit themselves to a thousand years. It comes from the Judeo-Christian idea of [Three Ages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three_Eras), the last of which was to last for a thousand years before the Second Coming (depending on which culture/philosophy you're looking at). You can read more about the idea of thousand year reigns on Wikipedia, [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Millennialism). The idea shows up in various places and the Nazis just stole it like they did much of their mystical thinking. [deleted] Libertarianism seems a little dicey to a lot of people tbh it has a lot of dicey aspects. Yeah I'm not a fan personally, and honestly Reddit is pretty liberal and although Ron Paul is socially he would be the first one to cut big programs most would deem necessary. I really feel like a lot of the hate was unwarranted, but I also think that President Ron Paul would work a lot better in theory than in practice. 

During the Ron Paul surge, I was a staunch libertarian (notice the lowercase L, that means I'm talking about the philosophy and not the political party). I've softened a bit since then because I feel that it's a good idea for the government to cover some things that many libertarians would say that they shouldn't. I honestly wouldn't have a problem with a single payer healthcare system, for example. At the same time, I think libertarians bring some good points and ideas to the table. Ron Paul is very anti-corporate, which I like. We have a major problem these days with what they called Industry Capture in my Sociology program. This is basically when an industry (let's say cable companies like Comcast for example) manages to bring the people who are supposed to regulate them over to their way of thinking through any combination of bribes, lobbying, etc. Effectively, this makes that industry its own regulator because they can just feed the regulations that they want to the people in charge of their own regulators so that regulation becomes self-regulation, defeating the purpose of the regulation completely. 

He's also pro-life, which reddit doesn't like very much, nor do I. There was also the scandal of racial remarks in a one of his news letters from (I think) the 80's. The ghost writer who supposedly wrote those remarks was fired immediately when it happened, and Ron Paul disavowed it, but his detractors maintained that since it was in his news letter with his signature it was his fault, essentially accusing him of being a racist. I maintain that even if he did hold racial prejudice back then, he's spoken against racism as being a very toxic form of collectivism much more recently (libertarianism is all about individualism), so I find the position of him currently being a racist (at least more of one than anyone else considering that everyone holds some form of racial bias even if its on an unconscious level) to be untenable. 

My basic problem with Ron Paul is that he's too much of a purist in his libertarianism. If there's one thing I've learned, its that effective government should be flexible in order to address the needs of the nation. I love the basic ideals of libertarianism, but ideals don't always make effective policy.

Edit: Forgot to put a space after the period in a sentence. He's got really questionable views on a lot of issues, the kind of issues that you wouldn't associate him with (ie not surveillance, war on drugs, military spending, etc.) Lee, Leahy, Shumer, Cruz, Durbin Source on Schumer? Dude is slimy as fuck and it would surprise me if he's against spying on Americans.

Edit: Schumer says he wants to limit, but not eliminate the NSA's ability to read your email and listen to your phone calls. http://fusion.net/video/1742/sen-chuck-schumer-on-nsa-spying-lawsuit-i-am-to-the-right-of-rand-paul/ I don't always agree with Lee but i swear he is the only congressman who puts out a detailed explanation of every one of his votes. Every politician should follow this practice. What is this? A list for ants? Obama... when he was running. But he voted for it, when he wasn't running yet.  And that's why you pay more attention to voting records than campaign promises, ladies and gentlemen. How to become an informed voter:

1. Read candidates biography.
2. Look at their campaign contributors
3. Voting record

That should be sufficient to get started.  So few people care about that stuff though. It's one of the reasons democracy doesn't work like it should :( Yeah but did you see the guy from the other team.  He us evil!!!!!! Key words "get started".  You still have to sit down and do analysis.  That's hard work, and requires a critical mind.  For the underinformed or hyperpartisan, it's so much easier to just pronounce "My guy is awesome because he says what I wanted to hear" or, alternatively, "They're all equally terrible and voting doesn't make a difference because I don't get everything I want RIGHT NOW!"

Too many Americans, particularly young voters, absolutely refuse to vote strategically and play the long game. True, but people have no excuses Did he really ever campaign against the NSA? Just asking cause it seems like often we pretend like Obama campaigned like our dream candidate would. Of course he did. Were you not there? There are videos of him all over YouTube from his campaign in 2008 where he promised to end warrantless domestic spying.

He lied through his fucking teeth. No.  In July 2008, Obama voted to support FISA and expand spying powers. http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2008/07/09/blogtalk-obamas-fisa-vote/ Thanks for the reminder.  :( i don't have the list on me, but my friend over at the NSA can.
 Way to leave out cruz too I don't know why you got downvoted. Cruz is definitely against NSA spying. His 'obama should have stopped that Texas attack' thing was some grand Having It Both Ways. Safety or Liberty, Cruz, which do you prefer more? He has a point though. If you have an all-powerful, law-bending spying device, shouldn't you use it for good instead of evil at least once in a great while?  If for no other reason than PR? Actually, this is one of the reasons *not* to have an all-powerful, law-bending spying device. Because they're not nearly as effective as people wish they were, especially when it comes to lone wolf attacks. The majority of terrorist attacks in the U.S. since 9/11 have been lone wolf, or single individuals acting with the support of a larger group, rather than a 9/11-style plot with large amounts of people and funding.

For all we know, the two guys in Texas never communicated about their plans digitally in any way that was significant. They may have been talking about it in person the day of the event, and eventually gotten so mad about it that they just went. They may have met up to talk about it every time they planned it. If that's the case, then NSA spying is completely powerless to do anything about that. Unless we just start putting cameras in every citizen's home (*that's not a suggestion NSA*).  &gt;Actually, this is one of the reasons not to have an all-powerful, law-bending spying device. Because they're not nearly as effective as people wish they were

I'm not Ted Cruz, but I think this was the point he was trying to make. If he wasn't then he should have been. 

Also you must have missed the part where they had access to the cameras in devices like phones and tablets. They *do* have cameras in everyone's homes.  Hey, its popular to hate Cruz shhhh.  Yeah, I wouldn't doubt if Rand Paul is standing right there with Wyden. If you ignore what the news says about him and listen only to what HE says,  you tend to love that guy. [Here's a post](http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/35nbik/rand_paul_plans_to_filibuster_patriot_act/) right here on /r/technology about Rand Paul promising to filibuster the Patriot Act. Sitting at 90 upvotes.

This article about Ron Wyden filibustering the Patriot Act has 5476 upvotes.

Folks need to break away from their partisan labels and bickering. This is not a partisan issue. Wyden was about the only Democrat who spoke up on Rand Paul's behalf when he filibustered against drone strikes on U.S. citizens abroad, and I think they'll be a solid team against the Patriot Act as well.

The sad part is, I don't expect them to prevail...
 I'm sure if you ask the NSA they would have one kicking around somewhere. Thank you for my Genuine Chuckle of the day. :) [deleted] "It's remarkable how often those two coincide." http://media.giphy.com/media/IHM7nuJaR65MI/giphy.gif But they can't find it because they have too much garbage to sift through Rep. Justin Amash in the House There's this promising new Senator who says he'll filibuster retroactive immunity for telecoms who cooperated with spy agencies to spy on Americans without warrants:

http://web.archive.org/web/20080131074523/http://obama.senate.gov/press/071217-statement_from_2/ He changed his opinion on this and voted for FISA reauthorization in July 2008.  This is when he lost my vote. http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2008/07/09/blogtalk-obamas-fisa-vote/  That was the joke! :)

I'm sorry that it wasn't the least bit funny.  

**EDIT:** To put it in context for everyone, this was all before Obama was elected president, and of course pre-Snowden.  We'd learned from a previous whistle-blower that [the NSA had a room in AT&amp;T data center](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Room_641A) into which a copy of all of their phone &amp; internet traffic data was sent.  This was illegal, and had been hidden from Congress and The People.  Organizations like the ACLU, EFF and others wanted to sue AT&amp;T over this breach of law.  The surveillance state's cronies in Congress proposed a law that would grant the collaborator telecoms retroactive immunity for breaking the law and violating the human rights of Americans, to head off such a law suit.  

The link I posted was Senator and presidential candidate Obama's official statement on that retroactive immunity bill.  As /u/molo1134 correctly points out, he did not in fact filibuster it.  He voted *for* it.  As president, he invoked "executive privilege" to quash other similar suits.

https://www.eff.org/pages/case-against-retroactive-amnesty-telecoms

http://sadtrombone.com/
 Right. Just letting people know that this happened *BEFORE* the election. That was also the day I switched from "cautious optimism" on Obama to "same old shit".   Thanks good to see fresh faces that actually care about privacy. If we can get a few more good apples to stand together like this we will really have something.  Wyden is a strong man.  I don't, but I bet the NSA does. 

&gt;Anybody got a list of senators who have announced similar resentment?

I'm sure the NSA does.  The NSA probably has the list *cheers for Wyden* *cheers for Rand Paul too*

About time senators stand up and fight it. Dear Senator Wyden,
Please use your remote to start your car from a distance and once safely inside it check that the brakes are working. and for the love of god don't touch any computer ever, it probably has child porn on it He can always go work for Parliament in the UK then I thought the idea was to avoid car bombs? If they wanted to take him out it would have happened years ago. He's consistently and adamantly fought overreaching government surveillance and worked to increase transparency.  More like if they *could* take him out they would have done so by now. As screwed up as things are I'd like to think it's still too dangerous to go killing off senators who oppose you. I'm not saying it definitely hasn't happened at one time or another, just saying I don't believe we're quite at the level of corruption that would allow this on a regular basis. And at this point it's probably too late for them to do it, it would be pretty obvious and he's too high profile.  Don't forget Wellstone. Or maybe they don't have to take him out because he is a single senator who will likely not influence anything or can be bought. bomb wired to the brake pedal. Don't give them ideas! Bomb wired to ideas. Deep. Very nice. Fun fact: Modern cars are full of computers, and the better ones have cell phone network connections for telematics. Once you're in, you can put malicious software into various components of the car, which can e.g. start accelerating uncontrollably, disable the brakes, then at a "good" moment, briefly apply brakes on one side. The software resides in memory, i.e. it disappears without a trace as soon as the fiery crash interrupts power.

[Papers on the topic if you think I'm exaggerating](http://www.autosec.org/publications.html). From the abstracts:

&gt; "We discover that remote
exploitation is feasible via a broad range of attack vectors
(including mechanics tools, CD players, Bluetooth and
cellular radio), and further, that wireless communications
channels allow long distance vehicle control [...]"


&gt;"We  demonstrate
that an attacker who is able to infiltrate virtually any Electronic
Control  Unit  (ECU)  can  leverage  this  ability  to  completely
circumvent  a  broad  array  of  safety-critical  systems.  Over  a
range  of  experiments,  both  in  the  lab  and  in  road  tests,  we
demonstrate the ability to adversarially control a wide range
of automotive functions and completely ignore driver input 
including  disabling  the  brakes,  selectively  braking  individual
wheels  on  demand,  stopping  the  engine,  and  so  on.  We  find
that  it  is  possible  to  bypass  rudimentary  network  security
protections within the car, such as maliciously bridging between
our  cars  two  internal  subnets.  We  also  present  composite
attacks that leverage individual weaknesses, including an attack
that  embeds  malicious  code  in  a  cars  telematics  unit  and
that will completely erase any evidence of its presence after a
crash" good thing I drive a manual!

...

Except my car has electronic power steering. Can we get a Star Wars fan fiction filibuster? This is America. If we want America's support, we only need him to read one thing: celebrity sexts gathered by the NSA. Yeah I want to hear more about Anthony Wiener's wiener. I would have a hard time watching CSPAN with a serious face if this happened.

Here's to hoping /r/GoneWildNSA takes off.....just for it to come crashing down. But without a doubt, you WOULD watch it. And that's what we need to happen. This should be a thing. I'd care more about filibusters if we could all vote on what's being read to us.  [Can't believe they didn't use this in any episode](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5BBhNkywMJY) They did use it, just not in its entirety (unfortunately). 

S05E19 - 'Article Two' I support this, but only if it's fan fiction procedural drama about the Imperial Senate. Let him know he's a great American: http://www.wyden.senate.gov/contact/ Proud to be an Oregonian proud to be in a sales tax-free state, thats the only reason I like living in this state ... oh and its not in a drought I guess thats kinda nice. ya for sure, things are just okay here.  This was my first thought as well! Read off a list of all the names of people who have died during the Iraq and Afghanistan military offenses. 1.3 million people's names should be enough to put it off.
 
Edit: That 1.3mln number came from just one independent source, that based some of its overall data on a survey asking afghan families if they knew of family members killed, 22% responded yes. Obviously, that's not 100% accurate. So, I looked into a few more independent sources ala Wikipedia and I'll say the total death tool is a solid 200k-300k (5 seconds per name x 250k names, 1,250,000 seconds / 3600 seconds/hr = 347 hours = 14 days.) that's Iraq alone. There are no real solid numbers on Afghanistan. Which is in and of itself absolutely horrific. We don't know how many people we killed. 
 
While some people may say, "what does Iraq and Afghanistan have to do with the NSA?" The NSA, with all the powers delegated to them since the Patriot Act passed, had more than likely enough evidence to prove everyone wrong about going over there, but they chose silence. That blood in the sand, thousands of miles away, is on their hands as much as anyone else. The names of those slain during their silence should serve as a proper enough reason to not give them that power again. Evil men do not destroy the world, it is good men who choose to remain silent.  Even better, read off a list of all the people who the NSA is watching. It would go on forever. Yes this is what they should do, plus if it was alphabetical maybe people would watch c-span when their last name was close If your last name starts with "B" you'll have to wait a couple years.

Assuming 150 WPM, 2 words per name, 24 hours a day you get 108k names per day, it would take ~64814 days (~177 years) to get through every person in the world (Approximated to 7b). Assuming a uniform distribution of last names, The Bs would start late into the 7th year. We probably wouldn't even get past all the Aarons I'm fine with this. Filibuster till it expires then just keep going  Could the birth rate keep up with the time it takes to say their name? This is the primary worry of Wowbanger the Infinately prolonged. So do this:

* Read a list of everybody who has died overseas.
* Claim that the NSA has the potential prevent deaths like this, but they waste their time spying on...
* Read a list of every American citizen
* ... and that it isn't worth it.

That should fill up a decent amount of time without coming up with more than a minute's worth of actual content.

Source: high school student Damn, dude. can you write my university essays for me? I should have mentioned I have a C in english
 Won't the NSA just keep doing it anyway even if they don't have the authority? Isn't that why the NSA is such a problem? What they are doing now is not illegal. If what they were doing was illegal, there would be no legal grounds for treating Edward Snowden the way we are and whistle blowers would be incredibly likely.

The problem is that it's currently legal and so secretive that there can be no effective oversight. &gt; What they are doing now is not illegal. 

The U.S. federal court of appeals would disagree with you. 

http://www.defenseone.com/politics/2015/05/federal-appeals-court-rules-nsa-spying-illegal/112129/

But this has nothing to do with the legality of persecuting Snowden.  Sure there would.  They are treating Snowden this way based off of a WWI Espionage Act law which doesn't make any qualification about the legality of the actions disclosed.  

And I would say legality is undetermined.  Challenges have been trying to fight their way through our "justice" system.  And the government has abused to the fullest a catch-22 where a person can't challenge a law unless they can prove direct harm while keeping all proof secret.  Getting cases tossed out for standing and lying to do it.  Here's one example:

http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/may/17/government-lies-nsa-justice-department-supreme-court

And if the government manages to pick a case to test that judges approve of and confirm it's legal, I'd argue that the bar of "legal" or "illegal" is meaningless when it comes to any value judgement.  No amount of legal maneuvering makes it right. It IS illegal.  It violates the 4th Amendment.  The Constitution trumps all other laws.  And no, there is no legal ground for treating Edward Snowden like a criminal or traitor.  The only criminals in this case are the ones violating our 4th Amendment rights, not the whistleblower who revealed that they are committing these crimes.  The only bright side is if they don't have official authority then whatever they've gathered can't be used in court. As far as I understand it, anyway.  Can't be used now. But that's what parallel construction is for.  Someone needs to just honestly tell Wyden to immediately accuse whoever starts the bill with treason. Very fox news. Unfortunately it would probably be effective. Unfortunately, enough turncoats in Congress probably support NSA spying to overcome a filibuster.   From the article:

&gt; ...it seems very unlikely that they would get the 60 votes needed to overcome a filibuster.
 That isn't how an actual filibuster works. An actual filibuster means one guy standing up there talking for days to prevent any opportunity for a vote. It's how it's supposed to work. I'm not sure if that's possible in the current regime, but I definitely support the effort.  They only need 60 votes for cloture, which can stop a filibuster. Yeah, that's why nobody ever filibusters "for real" anymore. Everyone already knows whether the other side has 60 votes. If not, they just say they're filibustering, from the comfort of their offices. It's not worth the trouble of actually going there in person when they could be fundraising because the outcome is already guaranteed.

Like how you don't actually have to capture the king in chess, except chess is a game. Even when I'm putting off studying for my AP Gov test tomorrow, I'm studying for it. Thanks! A cloture petition may be used to interrupt a "true" filibuster and, with 60 votes, can eventually end it. Then I'll filibuster the cloture vote! You can't triple stamp a double stamp. but you can 360 and noscope No! No! You can't triple stamp a double stamp! You can't triple stamp a double stamp, Lloyd! You can't triple stamp a double stamp! LLOYD! LLOYD!  A cloture vote is a vote to end debate and take a vote. 60 votes needed for cloture. Exactly.  They've agreed to a different system whereby they can "filibuster" everything without 60% support without requiring them to effectively shut down the senate to do it.  There should be enormous cost every single time a senator wants to filibuster something.  Removing the cost removes the very act.  All they did was move the bar to pass anything from 50% to 60%. Changing the system to the EZ-Filibuster is the dumbest thing they've ever done.  They need to bring back real filibusters...  Where you're not allowed to leave the floor during your filibuster even to take a leak.

"STROM THURMOND, 1957

At 24 hours and 18 minutes, Sen. Strom Thurmond still holds the record for the longest uninterrupted filibuster, and for good reason: he came prepared. See, the filibusterer cant leave the floor for any reason, not even a bathroom break. So to thwart his bladder, Thurmond took advance steam baths to sweat out all excess fluids, and then made an intern stand by with a bucket during the filibuster, just in case.

So what was the offending bill that Strom felt so strongly about? The Civil Rights Act of 1957. It passed anyway." I'm a little uneducated on the current method and rules to filibuster. I understand I could google it, though I'd rather spark a conversation here, where others can read and contribute their opinions too!

Could you explain the current process and why it's easy? &gt; Could you explain the current process and why it's easy?

Without knowing for sure, I'd assume the current process is disturbingly similar to "one guy says 'I'm filibustering', it is checked whether 60% are reached, if not, the act is thrown out, if yes, the act is voted on". It is the political equivalent to putting your fingers in your ears and shouting "LALALALALALALALALA."  Billions are spent in search of the finest men and women of America to discuss and decide upon laws that may change our lives fore-LALALALALALALAL HAHA YOU CANT VOTE SO IT WONT BECOME LAW LALALAALALLAALALALLALALA IM HOLDING THE TALKING STICK SO SHUT THE FUCK UP LALALALA It's interesting, in the movies they're giving a passionate speech.

In real life they just read off of a phonebook. Did you see Rand Paul's 13 hour filibuster against domestic drone strikes and all that? He spent the whole time making sound arguments.

Also apparently he's planning on filibustering the renewal of the patriot act. 

http://m.huffpost.com/us/entry/7258460 1950 called, they want their old filibuster rules back.  

hint: that ain't how it works anymore. it is simply a call to either kill the bill or require a 60% majority to continue to final vote. nobody talks anymore, because they removed the requirement to actually do work. ted Cruz's fake filibuster where he read the Cat in the Hat was just a publicity stunt. He could not call a filibuster on a budget bill, so he took a recess period to perform for the cameras pretending he had. What they do currently isn't a filibuster.  It requires no sacrifice, no loss of time, no waste.  Its just an act so they can pretend to filibuster something.  Its garbage and should be illegal.  If they want to filibuster something, they should have to waste absolutely everyone's time to do it. That is what i said. That's my point.  Even without the theatrics Cruz is so fond of, they're still pretending.  They made a new rule to ban filibustering and put something much more harmful in place simply because it takes less time. I'm so glad we live in a country that would not undergo a secret NSA program without the approval of Congress.... I love this trend where it's becoming "a thing to run on" to be against all this spying.  Of course, there was a hearing recently where the FBI was trying to get a backdoor in encryption and the panel seemed legitimately pissed off about it.  So I'm glad to see they're humans as well and maybe we can swing this thing in the other direction. &gt; "I'm tired of extending a bad law," Wyden said on MSNBC yesterday. "If they come back with that effort to basically extend this for a short term without major reforms like ending the collection of ***phone records***, I do intend to filibuster."

Why the focus on a small subset (metadata only) of some archaic communication system (phone calls).

It makes me think this is all just intended to distract us.   They'll ban NSA monitoring of telegraph -- declare how "tough on privacy" they are -- and completely ignore the much more invasive not-just-metadata mining of all internet traffic.
 Some is better than none. I'm not sure where you're getting the idea that he's only going after a "small subset". He said "major reform*s* like..." He's spinning limiting collection of "phone records" as "major reform"?!?

Phone records are almost useless these days.   It's a dying communication channel.  And the data they capture on phone calls (allegedly just metadata) is far less intrusive than what they capture in other communication channels (the content of the messages too).

Which makes me think he's being intentionally deceptive to call limiting access to "phone records" as "major reform".
 I agree with you. Why stop at the phone records? prepare the phone books  Nearly any program can be justified 'in the name of security', but how much privacy and how many freedoms are you willing to trade 'in the name of security'. This single decision will not end the debate, so expect to deal with it as the digital age matures and becomes more deeply integrated into every facet of our lives. Think well now what decision you make lest you come to regret it later. It's always nice to see a senator you voted for upholding your values. It seems to be are hard thing to find nowadays. I generally like him, but OMFG Ron Wyden why you support TPP!?!?!?! I'm sorry, but TPP? Trans-Pacific Partnership.  It's a 12 nation free-trade framework currently being drafted, but the process has been done behind closed doors which is why many people aren't in favor of it.  What little we know about it came from some early draft information posted to Wikileaks that has been interpreted  to be everything from strengthening copyright law to limiting consumer litigation.  We'll have to wait until it's finalized before anyone gets to see anything. Just gonna say this,

Tom Wheeler was a shill and the new FCC regs were gonna strengthen Comcast. Everyone on reddit KNEW THIS 6 months ago. 

How did that one turn out again?

How about we sit the fuck back and wait for the treaty to come out, there will be a 60 day review period where it will be available for the public, JUST LIKE THE FCC REGS. Wheeler didn't act in a vacuum. Groups fighting for net neutrality applied quite a lot of pressure to get that victory.

Many of those same groups are fighting against fast-track for TPP because supposedly it contains provisions that are similar to SOPA, PIPA, and ACTA (a bunch of failed attempts to aggressively protect corporate intellectual property online that would restrict internet freedom for individuals and have some other nasty side-effects).

According to early leaks of the text, there's good reason to believe that TPP has some major problems. That's reason enough to oppose fast-track. Does it contain controversial provisions? Ok, great, then let's debate these provisions under the light of day, allow modifications, and not make it a "take it or leave it" deal.

I've yet to hear a good argument in favor of fast-track. "Wait and see, it might be ok (because something else that looked bad turned out ok for now)" is certainly not one. In all fairness it was completely fair to think that given the situation, just as it is completely fair to think tpp is bad given the situation.  TPP is the only thing wyden has supported that leaves me wondering wtf is going on. Almost all of his other positions have my full support. His TPP actions are just confusing as fuck in context with the rest of his time in office.  Oregon does something like $8.6 billion in international trade in goods and services.  As the senior Senator from Oregon, he's supporting something that would (possibly) benefit Oregon businesses.  Since I can't read the bill for myself I can neither agree nor disagree with his support of it, but I'll give him the benefit of the doubt for now. Yeah, Oregon doesn't have a large manufacturing infrastructure (most is tied up in things like computer chip manufacturing), so things like agricultural exports will mean it benefits more from TPP. Plus, look at Nike. ~~Only~~* One of only two Fortune 500 company in Oregon, and it benefits enormously from free trade. Undoubtedly they're lobbying his office to keep it going. Hell, they even invited Obama to speak at their main campus.

*Totally forgot about Precision Castparts, thank you /u/dotcomse for the correction. &gt; Nike. Only Fortune 500 company in Oregon

Precision Castparts, too. He's from Oregon.  Now, in the coming weeks Wyden's person secrets will "mysteriously" get leaked online; we know who will be behind it. As a former Oregonian who helped get that man to office initially, I cannot be more proud of my vote. Kick some ass, Ron! I still have an unreturned videotape from filibuster. Late to the party but it needs to be said. Wyden, while great on this issue, is pushing hard in Oregon for support of the TPP fast track proposal. Wyden is also anti-net-neutrality. I'm really proud to have that man represent my state right now Glad that I voted for Wyden. I fucking love my senator. He always does the right thing!  The mere fact that this bill is still alive and being pushed so hard is evidence enough it's a bad bill. How long has it or some form of it been around? Yes yes yes where can I call to show my support They can go to court or cut funding. Though if they cut funding the NSA probably would reveal some plot they foiled or uncovered and use fear mongering in the media to regain public support. The court will probably knock it down too, but it won't stop until the resources perpetuating it are cut off. That's awesome!!!! THANK YOU WYDEN!!!!
 but but but...Obstructionist!  How do we support him further? Oregon, we're number 1! That's my senator!!!! He's gonna get in a one man car crash before that can happen. How the fuck is this even technology related? This is 100% political. Get this shit out of here.  filibuster DEEZ NUTS He should have kept his mouth shut and just filibustered when the time came. Now the Military industrial complex and CIA will have their lobbyists banging down doors to offer potential swing votes a deal with the devil to override any filibuster.  And now, he is going to "kill himself " Doesn't Wyden support the TPP? Filibuster? I hardly know 'er! Good on Wyden. Rand Paul will probably join him.  I think the fact that it is coming up again for straight renewal at all is evidence that we need a change. The founding fathers didn't intend for the system of government they outlined to stay completely static, and it has. As a result, our legislative bodies are almost completely stagnant. As much as I agree with it here, filibustering is commonly used to veto difficult and controversial decisions in our legislature. Why is filibustering even a thing today? Because of a fundamental dislike of changing the details involved in the system of government, even though the world itself has changed, our political parties have changed, and the writers of the constitution intended for their outline to change with it.

Think about it like this. The bills of today are still voted on by the representative who asked a General is troop build up on Guam would tip the island over and cause it to sink into the ocean. Is this acceptable? Sure, it's a problem of uneducated voters at the core, but it's going to continue making larger problems until it's fixed.

Why is it harder to emigrate to the United States than it is to be born here and vote before you're legally able to buy alcohol? Or rent a car? The current state of democracy almost anywhere in the world is depressing. Praise, praise, praise and support anyone willing to do such a move. It's time we take personal and privacy rights back!  Man, Wheeler really has mustered up some backbone. Kudos to him. I almost feel bad. We gave him hell, and he...gave us what we wanted. He already wanted to give that to us. He already hated the too big cable companies that fucked over his start up back in the day. He was on our side, went in deep, and came out with friends who he felt were enemies.  Yeah I guess at the time, the Reddit bias threw me off. I was in a panic for my Internet rights because we made him seem like the enemy. I feel he didn't get nearly enough praise after all was said and done. It looked the same to everybody, and it's a great thing he did. He was a black sheep in a dingos clothing. To fool your enemies, you must fool your friends. Thanks, Sun Tzu! And I think he knows a little bit more about fighting than you do pal.  Because he invented it?  And then he perfected it so that no living man could best him in the ring of honor! Hello there Al Sah-him Not to everybody. There were plenty of people saying "Eh, he seems to be headed in the right direction, let the man do his job." 

Those voices definitely got trampled by the self righteous blind fury our wonderful community is prone to.

I don't usually bother with "I told you so", but God dammit reddit, I fucking told you so. If we want climate scientists making environmental laws rather than old men with snowballs, we need to allow for regulators of industries-we-don't-like to be established experts in those fields as well. Reddit is one of my largest sources of news and media, and sadly my view is through the Reddit lens. This affirms that I need to do more research and draw up my own conclusions. Flip side-if we left wheeler alone to do his job and didn't voice our concerns do you think he would still do this?  Not too sound too childishly "I told you so" but there were times I posted in Wheeler hatejerks telling people to just wait for him to take action before getting the pitchforks. It didn't go over very well. Appointing Wheeler also a common line in Obama hatejerks for a while. I mean, that's easy to say, but the doubt was understandable. He was a lobbyist for the very industry that is seeking to shut down net neutrality and maintain the monopolies. Maybe some of his actions forshadowed that he would be a good guy, but the general public has been burned too many times by people in this exact position (lobbyist turned beuracrat) to not be at least somewhat skeptical.  Kudos for seeing what other people didnt, but I hardly think we can be blamed for thinking he would be just another asshole from the industry he spent years lobbying for. Yep, tend to get calloused over.   Kinda like the notable issues with cops lately.   I personally know cops that are awesome.   I've been pulled over by cops who turn out to be awesome.  But am I still afraid of being pulled over despite being a middle class, white,  almost 30 male?   You bet your fucking ass I am.  &gt; there were times I posted in Wheeler hatejerks telling people to just wait for him to take action before getting the pitchforks.

The problem with this is that you don't get to see the draft rules until they're already on track to become regulations -- so if you wait to turn up the pressure until you see bad rules, it could be too late. And his previous comments about some kind of "commercial reasonableness" standard didn't give me a lot of confidence.

That said, he is one of my favorite people in Washington now.  He should do an ama so we can show him that were not total dicks.  This story is like a revenge post you see on 4chan Or Eve Online.  Home of the long con. Why does it always need to be some nice little narrative?  Couldn't it just be that he is a competent professional who serves the interests of cable companies when he works for them and serves the interests of consumers when that's his job?   I don't know, have you ever worked anywhere ever that wasn't all entry level positions?  
  People suck dude. Not saying that's the only way things ever are, but 60 percent of the time, that's how it is every time. There's something to be said about perspective and cynicism here.  The FCC has a long history of protecting the consumer.  There's no reason not to give them at least some benefit of the doubt.  Dude, fuck that shit. I've been paying for cable for fifteen years. I would believe you if I were some kid without bills, but no. just no.  
  Edit: So this guy socsa is kind of a big deal on reddit. (:But I still don't buy that shit Socsa! Hah, no, just another guy.  I'm cynical too, but I also have some experience dealing with the FCC.  It's been an example of "good government" for some time, but it's far from perfect. I gotta say that was some pro revenge shit right there. That's not guilt, that's how politics works. That's how politics *should work. That's far from the case however. Tell that to the citizens who rallied against monopolies, railroad barons, etc. early in the 1900s. You think we're somewhere new? This country has been here before, and we've fixed it the same way every time: uniting ourselves to ensure our voices are heard. If only there were some way people could do that on a small scale to redress the asymmetry of power in employer/employee situations ... It's literally happening right now So then we should never stop giving them hell right?  This guy knows what's up Exactly. It shouldn't be a "oh this party is 'my team'" it should be more adversarial. Constantly giving them hell until they're forced to serve us. That's what lobbyists do, they just use money "That's politics bitch." No, in another reedit post someone linked a link to his history, wheeler  was an internet entrpenure, an what did he get? 10x faster internet banned, so what does he do? Plots revenge, joins the forces that have driven these lands, and, in a final attempt, with his enemy's support, he turned back and is now taking action to destroy his foes, with every bit of blood left in his battle scarred hands. "You're seeing conspiracies and complications where they don't necessarily have to exist to explain the situation. Usually the simplest explanation is the most likely to be correct.
I think the guy is just a true professional. If he's hired to be a cable lobbyist, he's going to be the best #%@$ cable lobbyist he can be. When he was hired to manage the FCC and represent end users, he's going to do that as well as he can. In 2 years, he could very well be a cable lobbyist again and doing that with just as much effort and effectiveness."

Comment stolen from /u/brinebold When you hear hooves, think horse, not dingo riding a zebra. This is the moral backbone to Thank You for Smoking. "Everyone's got a mortgage." No, it's not. We criticized him before he made any policy decisions. We criticized him, not ideas we were opposed to. Now at least we know he's not a dingo. Maybe we should send him thank you letters our something from the reddit community. I agree with the thanking him part. Positive reinforcement works, even on individuals in high places of power.  We should send him "good job, keep it up" letters now. It's nice to get a pat on the back every now and then. Keep his resilience up against those assholes. Seriously. It's almost like we have a democracy. We've gotten so used to not getting what we want that when it happens and politicians actually listen that we're almost shocked by it.. like a deer in headlights. Right, god forbid someone do their job Shit man in todays world when a politician does his job and doesn't suck corporate dick, its reason enough to celebrate  He's a bureaucrat, not a politician.  Just a professional doing a job At any of those high levels politics is the main driving force. Military, corporate, actual politics, it's all the same. You have to play the political game to advance. His job is to make decisions. It could have gone either way. We are fortunate he didn't rule in favor of the cable companies  Better to be an unexpected hero than a proven villain Good dingo. I'd consider hiring him to watch my baby. ^^^Maybe ^^^not It'd probably be safe Suspicious username Very dingo-like. He's really been impressing me lately, its so surprising.  I always figured he was bought and paid for cable company shill. He might just be a true professional. He is hired as a lobbyist for the cable industry, he does his job. He's appointed the head of the FCC, and he does his job.  I think he's a swell guy I think you're a swell guy. Or somebody in the cable industry pissed him off during his time as a lobbyist. This guy is like the JFK of the FCC. Fools the shotcallers into supporting him and then does a 180 once in office. This is admittedly  hyperbole, but it is just rare to see politicians doing the right thing. Look how much support he has!!!!! Literally MILLIONS of people.  He didn't have any before? What makes you think he didn't, just out of curiosity? Because of his employment history most assumed he would do anything the industry wanted.  With good reason. That's usually how it works. 

See: the banking industry. He's working hard to prove that he is not, in fact, a dingo. Wheeler, continuing the combo of big hits, starts laying down the smack-talk combos.

He's now the people's champion, and he knows it. I really want to know what finisher he's planning to use. Please be federal municipal fiber option... \&gt;Wake up tomorrow morning 

\&gt;Open up reddit

\&gt;Wheeler has personally demolished comcast, at &amp; t, and time warner cable, breaking them apart into thousands of smaller companies. 

\&gt;Publically executes all associated ceos

\&gt;Forces the new ones to instate fiber immeditely 

\&gt;Wheeler is granted immortality and is forever guardian of the internet

\&gt;Wheeler is love

\&gt;Wheeler is life My body is ready! My spirit is willing, but my flesh will be spongy and bruised after some gigabit internet. Death by intersnu snu. Cue T-1000.gif of at&amp;t merging back together. Each time they reform, the middle finger gets bigger And their nipples get more sensitive *shudder*

It was kinda like that, actually.. Watching NYNEX, Bell Atlantic, SBC.. all those mini-horrors who could at least only fuck up a limited region - all reassembling like some wretched gelatinous monster.... Isn't that what happened once already? AT&amp;T being a lot of mergers of the ripped-apart parts of the old AT&amp;T &gt; &gt;Publically executes all associated ceos

http://i.imgur.com/qVbUArb.gif For our friends using Comcast: http://i.imgur.com/h9e9pi8.gif Tom "Godzilla" Wheeler &gt;Wheeler is love
&gt;Wheeler is life

Just never forget that is what they said about GabeN, he goes out of email range for a day and Steam launches paid mods. 

Imagine what the FCC would do in a *month* with Wheeler gone.  I hate to just speak without basis on this one...

but I find it hard to believe Gabe was as completely unaware as people give him credit for being.

and on the flipside? It's great that Wheeler is setting the precedent for this kind of behavior. It seems wrong to dismiss it that way.  Completely out of range? No. But he did have surgery and his Laguna race coming up. Contrary to popular belief, Valve isn't his entire life.  You're telling me that the **CEO** of Valve had no idea that a major business decision that was obviously made in more than 24 hours (they had already negotiated with Bethesda!) was going to occur? You've got to be kidding me. Valve may not be his life, but it is his job, and there's no way he didn't know his company was going to announce Paid Mods I'm just saying that I don't like seeing people talk like GabeN just came in and saw something that was put out behind his back and heroically swooped in and saved gaming forever.

He had tabs on it from probably concept to completion. It's great that he took a stand and eliminated the system, but that's irrelevant. I just see too many people praising GabeN when he neither wants it or, at this point, deserves it. What? Did I miss something? How the hell was ending paid mods GabeN's doing? From what I read in his AMA he seemed to be in full on support of them. Do people honestly think valve does anything without that guys approval? If he was really our hero he'd improve Steams fucking horrible support system and develop HL3. It isn't like people haven't been asking for those two things for years now.  Very true.  &gt;lasagna race

Misread that and started laughing, wondering what GabeN was doing at a lasagna race.

Re-read that, now it makes a lot more sense. Thanks for brightening my evening. I would read about this on the internet and cry.. Not in joy but in pain as I'd still be stuck with Charter :( Oh god!! you're worshipping him just like the pcmasterrace worships GabeN  Local fiber, hell yes. Federal Fiber? I can't imagine that ever working. Well what do you think of the Highway system?  It needs serious re-investment. Clearly we should go back to using State Roads, and everything will be much better. ^^/s I-75 between Atlanta and Tampa has been under construction since before the '96 Olympics. 

We haven't nationalized the power grid, why would we do it with internet? It's still all talk really so far. Until the consumer starts seeing the effects of this, and not by 2020 either, he hasn't really done shit. Don't be so quick to jump sides just yet.  &gt;"The cable chiefs said they face plenty of competition," the newspaper reported. "Charter Communications Chief Executive Thomas Rutledge, whose company wants to buy Time Warner Cable, told the group: 'We, in the US, suffer from Stockholm Syndrome, and we have to be careful about what we think of our captors,' meaning the FCC."

Awww the poor Cable companies are pretending they know what it's like to live as hostages of a vicious entity which has no regard for you whatsoever. FUCK them. Their customers are the hostages. How dare they pretend they have any fucking idea what that's like.

I pay outrageous rates to comcast every month, NEVER receive the speeds I pay for, have a 300gb data cap (because I live in a test market) YET see no reduction to my bill where other comcast customers without caps can use twice the data I am "allowed" and never see an extra dime on their bill when I would see massive overages on mine. Oh, I'm forgetting that my service experiences huge amounts of down time each year and they have no interest whatsoever of upgrading their infrastructure to EVER ensure a more reliable service for me. And I have no choice because there is not competition, none of the issues I just mentioned would exist if there was real competition from companies who *want* my business rather than *expect* it. 

**Edit:** This post got big, just reread it and saw I tripped over my words from blind outrage a few times so I edited the comment for the sake of clarity. 

**Edit 2:** Thank you for the gold kind stranger! I only hope comcast doesn't find a way to charge me a delivery fee.. Gold is pretty damn heavy after all. Yup. I'm spending $70/mo for Comcast and my Internet drops at least 2+ times per day, and I never get close to the speed they promote. And there's nothing I can do about it because it's them or nothing.  I agree with your sentiment, but Charter does appear to be far better than most of the others on just about everything.  Former charter Cable and Internet customer here, it largely depends on where you are from what I've learned. The only cable company I've ever found dependable is CableOne and even then I wouldnt recommend them to anyone. I lived in a midsize city with Charter, and the cable would zonk out and make the picture all blocky ALL the time. And we had a nice package with a dvr and stuff too. It was lame. Yup. I had Charter in Alabama and it blew ass.  I've had U-verse, Comcast, and Charter at different times in Atlanta and Charter has been by far the best.

I'm still switching to Fiber as soon as I can. That's messed up. You listed like 3 other companies and the one that sounds really really shitty is still the best. That's sad..  That's interesting, I agree that Charter has sucked where I currently live. Although I had Comcast in a Suburb of Minneapolis, and while it was expensive, it was blazing fast and always reliable. I guess it really depends on the area. The nicest jerk at the jerk-convention is still a fucking jerk. That's a pretty low bar. That's like saying "the most charitable kkk member" Cox is the shit. I'm so satisfied with them, I feel bad. I'm in that boat.  Cox has always been amazing for me. Yeah I've had Time Warner, U-Verse, and Cox. Cox is definitely the most reliable. Glad I finally settled on it Yeah same here. They doubled their speeds last year, for like no reason. Verizon didn't get better or anything in my area, I checked.  That quote is fucking outrageous lol.

I mean, your story is too and I'm sorry for you man, hope it'll go in the right direction now. But wtf.. &gt;"On June 12 there will be in effect strong protections to shield against harm to an Open Internet. We cannot go backwards," Wheeler said.

[Republican presidential candidates say they will roll-back net neutrality rules.] (http://time.com/3741085/net-neutrality-republicans-president/)

*Sigh* said they were gonna repeal obamacare too. Democrats need to name their programs better. If they had named it "Veterans Care", "Children's Health" or much better: "NOTAX" (iNsurance cOmpanies use Trickery And eXtortion"). Which republican dare repeal NOTAX? I mean it's called the "Affordable Care Act", that doesn't stop Republicans from calling it Obamacare. True, but one thing I've learned about Americans (or rather people in general, but you're really good at it) is that you pick words and names that roll off the tongue easier. As far as I observed, both sides coopted the name "Obamacare". The dems only started calling it Obamacare after it was being used as an insult (because "Obama" is the devil in republicans' eyes), which would've happened no matter what it was named, as an attempt to own it, . Like "fuck yeah, it's Obamacare. We're proud that Obama got this healthcare reform through." Frankly I think it is a shitty idea, but it's too late now. I still refer to it as the affordable care act and most people have no clue what I'm talking about (yet still manage to have strong opinions on the legislation they don't even know the real name of....) This is a classic [Frank Luntz](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Frank_Luntz) move. He is the one responsible for the "Death Tax" (Estate Tax) and "Climate Change" (Global Warming)

He understood better than anyone else in DC the power of word choice and the underlying psychology that influences our opinions. The word *Estate* evokes imagery of giant white houses with manacured lawns and butlers, who seem like they can afford to be taxed a little harder. Everyone dies, it's part of the natural world, how could you tax that? Dude is a fucking genius, but also a soulless dickwad of the highest order. Do you really think the Democrats came up with the name 'Obamacare?' Interesting that Republicans favor Net Neutrality *even more* than Democrats.    I wouldn't have guessed that.    From your link:

&gt; *found that 85% of Republicans (and 81% of Democrats) were opposed to allowing ISPs to charge web companies a fee to deliver their content to customers more quicklyan arrangement they call Internet fast lanes.* Republican here. I listen to Republican news talk shows etc all the time, and the general feel among us plebeians is that we voted in the Congress this year and they are being about as much of a shitshow/not doing what their constituents want as one could expect. I mean, even things like a Republican would -want- but a Democrat wouldn't like opposing the Affordable Healthcare Act is being dodged. If you vote for people who deny net-neutrality, it matters very little if you personally disagree. It's entirely laughable when Republicans call net neutrality, such as Ted Cruz did, the Obamacare of the internet. What the fuck? Why are you people voting for these folks? Maybe abortion or lower taxes take the priority? I listen to sean hannity and rush limbaugh almost daily, and I can't believe republicans swallow it. They betray America.  It's a sunk causes fallacy of the highest order.  People have invested in hating democrats for so long (and for so little reason) that they mentally can't afford to admit how wrong they were, and thus continue to double down on that stupidity every two years. Don't vote republican then? Don't let these fucktards in office.  This is pretty spot on. We know the Republican stance on net neutrality so we should make it known that we dont want to vote for em!  &gt; This is pretty spot on. We know the Republican stance on net neutrality so we should make it known that we dont want to vote for em! 

Considering that 85% of their own constituents are *pro*-net-neutrality, its clear that they dont give two shits about their own, let alone for those not voting for them.

You really want to make a change? Vote for bernie motherfuckin sanders. That 85% figure sounded like bullshit but is [actually not bullshit](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2014/11/12/wonkbook-polling-shows-even-republicans-overwhelmingly-support-net-neutrality/). I'm a bit surprised, considering all of the friction and rallying that went on about it last year. Of the remaining 15% I'm guessing most of them don't understand "fast lanes." I bet they think sure I'd be willing to pay for faster internet, why shouldn't we let the companies charge more for faster internet? When the reality is much bleaker. eh, I know a lot of the redneck types that I grew up with in the midwest that posted stuff on facebook talking about how net neutrality is the obamacare for the internet and I know for a fact that they make the effort to go out and vote, which is guaranteed to be republican for them.   But people keep telling me both parties are the same, and that conservative politicians are just misunderstood! /s While neither party is amazing overall, they are most definitely not the same. What liberal would ever vote for McConnell or Cruz? What conservative would ever vote for Warren or Clinton? They represent their political/ideological opposites.

Incidentally, every person I've heard say that they're the same is a libertarian. Must be something about that world view that makes those polar ideals seem identical. Not meaning to be insulting, either, it's just interesting. Because libertarians share half their ideology with either party (I.e. socially liberal, economically conservative) and neither party tends to address their libertarian-specific desires, they seem to not only hold them in equal disregard but as outright the same party, different mascot. &gt;According to one poll by the Internet Freedom Business Alliance and Vox Populi, 83% of very conservative voters thought the government should take action to ensure that cable companies arent allowed to monopolize the Internet by charging some companies more to access customers.

That polling question was biased, people overstate their political affiliation in polling, and issue salience isn't factored in. The loss of Republican voters over this issue will be minimal, and we'll emerge on the other side of this election with less total support for the FCC rules, regardless of which party wins.

And that's all the cable companies need: a slightly less hostile environment to try again. I'm not doom and gloom about it, but we're going to have to win a few more times before it's all said and done. why don't we just make the internet backbone like fiber a public utility and let cable companies compete on billing and customer service (HA) and award contracts for line repair and building (something they actually do well and mostly through 3rd parties alread anyway.

Having comcast and verizon lay competing fiber is about as smart as building two sets of water pipes or two sets of powerlines. I think this is how it works in Japan.

All of the infrastructure is owned by the state. Companies lease access to the utility and then sell access to it to consumers. When I was in iwakuni there was like 20 different providers. Some wired some wireless all fighting to get the customer. Some had extra bandwidth for free. Others had free access to the associated hardware ect. It was a very competitive deal. 

It was fast cheap and the customer service was amazing. Best ISp experience I've ever had. They had a tech come out with a translator because they knew I did not speak Japanese. Probably was just someone at the company who spoke both languages but still.  This is the same thing here in New Zealand. We're currently going through a government funded, nationwide FTTH rollout. It's crown (government) owned in partnership with private companies, but most importantly it's a level playing field. I can choose from pretty much any provider, big or small, and they all can offer services down the same pipe as there's no monopoly on who can provide me service in my area. Unfortunately all of us in Australia are either getting stuck with FTTN or fuck all.  You guys are getting royally fucked over. FTTN is such a huge leap backwards. Here in NZ they finished rolling that out [2 years ago](https://www.chorus.co.nz/about-the-chorus-network/our-network-1/our-network-1). Meanwhile, I have a 100/50 connection and in Sydney my mother has a 1/0.5 Telstra connection. I don't think the older (ie voting) population (in general) sees the need to have Internet as a public utility the same way the younger ones do. Because they lived without it for so long, they don't see how it has ingrained itself in our lives to the point of becoming a necessity.

I wonder if there were similar issues with other utilities in their early years (eg electricity)? I'm fine with my damn whale oil! I don't need any of your devil strings to bring Satan's magic into my home! God made Whale's so we could use their oil, he did not intend for us to use Magic! Look up "the wired road" in the small town of Galax VA. It is a successful version of exactly that. 

It is mentioned in this article. http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-access_network Non-mobile: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-access_network

^That's ^why ^I'm ^here, ^I ^don't ^judge ^you. ^PM ^/u/xl0 ^if ^I'm ^causing ^any ^trouble. [^WUT?](https://github.com/xl0/LittleHelperRobot/wiki/What's-this-all-about%3F) If I had to guess...

the people in charge of making these decisions have little understanding of what's going on here, and so they default their opinions to lobbyists who write legislation for them and donate to their campaign funds to support it. Is it just me or Tom Wheeler isn't actually a dingo? Well, you and Tom Wheeler agree on that point. The rest of us are still suspicious. The Dingo Order *is* powerful, you can't deny that. I think he's just a dingo fighting against dingo stereotypes. Not all dingos eat babies! [\#notalldingos](##) On the internet, nobody knows you're a dingo. The baby has yet to be eaten He's more of a cuckoo. He flew in knocked big cables eggs out of the nest and by the time they notice it's too late.
http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_cuckoo The Wheeler train has no brakes! Choo Choo Motherfucker http://i.filmot.org/KmKKsTV.jpg Don't need 'em The introductory pricing on my cable Internet service ran out, and now I will have to pay $52/month instead of $30/month for 12 Mb service. I checked my other options. They're nonexistent. I have one choice. That makes my personal market a monopoly with absolutely no competition. I thought they banned those long ago but no. That's just something we tell school children.   Then blame the state and local governments that sold the franchise rights to your area to the highest bidder instead of encouraging competition.  Or blame the federal government for not enforcing anti-trust legislation on the books.  He's not a dingo Remember a while back then, you guys called or emailed your representatives about what you wanted? Maybe you guys should start having online campaigns or something to praise him for his actions. Let people know that this is what you want and let him know he needs to stand strong and not give in.  I was thinking the same thing. I wanted to write him a note saying if he was ever stuck in a situation where I live, I'd let him sleep on my couch, no questions asked. If he keeps going the way he is, I'll upgrade him to the guest room. Maybe even make breakfast. It almost sounds like Kindergarten. Out by the teeter-totters at noon!  /angryfootstomp In this case its the teacher telling the bullies to fuck off You'd be surprised how good Comcast gets when you live in a neighborhood getting Fiber this year. 250Mbps for $80. We used to pay $80 for 30Mbps. I'll take the speed boost right now but I'm jumping ship the moment Fiber is available. Comcast: "Compete with who?" &gt; Wheeler noted that cable companies claim to support an "open Internet" but object to how the FCC implemented its new net neutrality rules, which take effect next month.

See, you've got it all wrong. "Open Internet" means the telecom companies can do whatever they want. A free market without regulation will surely lead to better products and services at a lower price, because companies will naturally compete to win your business; that's how capitalism works.

I died a little inside typing that. This is what elected republicans are paid to believe. Brought to you by the party that blew up a small town in Texas because they didn't want to burden the fertilizer industry with regulations. Fun fact: that fertilizer factory broke several laws. The issue is actually that they have defunded the inspectors so much that the factorys are inspect at most once every few years and even then, they don't have time to do a sufficiently thorough investigation  Can we do something about the cable monopolies at some point? 

It sucks living in a small-ish town that has only one high speed internet "option". The only alternative is AT&amp;T DSL at a mind-blowing 3Mbps. That, or satellite internet, with non-existent customer service (Really. They forward tech support calls to other carriers' tech support lines), and super high costs for 1-2Mbps downstream speeds and a, roughly, 10GB monthly cap. Options for high speed are definitely needed in non-major cities. And on that particular moment, in the face of a greedy corrupt industry charger, Tom Wheeler said "no", and his balls grew three times larger. Am I wrong or was Tom Wheeler against net neutrality for a long time? I feel like his name was mentioned every time someone was trying to screw up the Internet. Its very complicated, basically Wheeler didn't want net neutrality because the only way to enforce it would be to heap a bunch of other regulations, known as "title 2" regulations on the ISPs. 

After the large  show of support for neutrality from citizens and pres Obama, Wheeler and the FCC reexamined the issue and figured out a way to enforce net neutrality while bypassing the other "title 2" regulations. That's why it's such a refreshing surprise to see him like this. He actually is a former Comcast Lobbyist, and Obama appointed him shortly after the start of his first term, which made lots of people very nervous, because he had campaigned saying he was going to get lobbying out of Washington, and appointed a few lobbyists within his first year in office.

But then this guy just goes super saiyan, and I have a feeling Obama will want to take credit like "see guys? I appointed this man!!" So here's sort of what happened:

- Net neutrality agreement was reached between ISPs and FCC well before Wheelers time. I believe this was around 2010 or so.
- Wheeler takes over as chairman.
- He inherits the agreement which was basically the same that was proposed in 2010. I'm pretty sure I've read in an interview that the fast-lane thing was in the 2010 proposal, but I might be wrong there. Anyway, some things (maybe including the fast-lane thing) was added and the proposal from 2010 was updated and brought forth in 2014.
- Verizon now goes apeshit, and decideds to sue FCC.
- Verizon argue that they can only enforce regulations on net neutrality through a title II enforcement.
- Verizon wins the case on this basis.
- Meanwhile, the internet similarly goes apeshit for the opposite reasons that Verizon did, and eventually the concensus is that broadband services needs to be reclassified under title II.
- At this point FCC opens up for public comments on the issue.
- Comments are flooded, and the FCC extends the period a bit, deciding to make a ruling in february.
- Now during all of this, the FCC doesn't just sit idly by and do nothing. According to Wheeler, the FCC were already exploring how enforcing title II on broadband providers could be done last summer. [reference](http://www.cesweb.org/News/CES-TV/Video-Detail?vID=UznrJyyyuxNO&amp;dID=DliGIusJiD1C&amp;sID=OhYr3WpdgEMj)
- When releasing their decision, Tom wheeler releases an [Op-ed in Wired](http://www.wired.com/2015/02/fcc-chairman-wheeler-net-neutrality/) explaining what's going to happen and why the decision has been made.

With that in mind, a lot of the anti-net-neutrality narrative about Wheeler and the FCC were coming from people discussing the circumstances around this as opposed to from Wheeler himself. So while there has been a long on-going narrative that Wheeler was bought and paid by the cable companies, I don't think any of that really came from Wheeler himself. But if you look at the circumstances surrounding it, it makes sense how a lot of people would think that, especially since a lot of people did not believe the FCC would revise their initial proposal after opening up for public feedback before making a decision in February this year. Mike Masnick from Techdirt had a good comment about Tom Wheeler in that he surprised everyone by not being in the pocket of the industry he is supposed to regulate. He pointed out that Wheeler is 69 years old so is not looking for his 'next cushy job'.  Offering people a comfy exit point has become a favourite technique for owning people while they are in power.  Wheeler is now free to act as he has no expectations of a 'next' job. 

 Today comcast announced gigabit internet in Nashville, in response to google picking Nashville for fiber. ATT did the same a couple months ago. Funny how that works... Wheeler is the gangster america needs to combat the white collar telecom crooks &gt; white collar crooks

uhh... they're the real gangsters. From dingo to internet champion. It's been said before, but I just want to say it again. Tom Wheeler, I applaud you for calling these companies out. I applaud you for listening when others wouldn't. I applaud you for fighting for the little guy. Hopefully, people will see that what cable companies are doing isn't right and these companies will meet their fate. If only time would go faster. I guess people showing up at his house worked...? For all of you that are saying "we feel bad for giving him hell", you can pay it back by voting. Not for him but for politicians that are truly on your side, if you dont vote the politicians that are on our side wont be able to get into power to do real change.  Prove to politicians that doing something to help us the people has its rewards. I have never in my life been so glad to be so wrong about someone.  He is clearly not a dingo.  We should send him a thank you note or something.  I mean, we always get up in arms when bad things happen but we should encourage our officials when they do good. "But that's like, hard work and stuff." And expect in 3 months for him to be involved a tragic car accident. Republicans Respond With

"Comcast will NEVER EVER have to play fair...as long as we are elected in the red states" "And we'll keep those wages low, and benefits down.  And we'll make sure your boss can fire you for any fucking reason he wants, while cranking down on sex, drugs, and music we don't like.  Vote republican 2016!" This is really quite shocking. When was the last time a government official scolded private industry for not being capitalistic enough? I may just be a cynic, but I can't shake the icky feeling that Wheeler is just running the long con, and two years from now in the middle of the night, he'll drop the act and give the ISP's everything they want.   We were so wrong about Tom Wheeler. Either he was exactly the man we needed all along, or being called a dingo on national television had him reevaluate what he was doing.   Comcast has a business model that eschews competing. They gobble up every new cable company that does not follow their lead. They have carefully destroyed competition in every market place. Now Wheeler wants them to work . How do we know this isn't some sort of fake outrage to soothe the crowd while some shady secret dealings are being hammered out in the boardrooms? Here is a word cloud of all of the comments in this thread: http://i.imgur.com/SMWfqMk.png  
[^source ^code](http://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds) ^| [^contact ^developer](http://reddit.com/user/WinneonSword) ^| [^faq](https://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds#faq) I don't buy the story that he wanted to do this all along, the dude introduced those net neutrality rules that would've destroyed it. If he wanted to, never introduce those rules and proposals. I'm hoping he just gave into public pressure and turned around on his policies after seeing the outcry. But I'm worried he just found a new highest bidder in someone like google that happens to have corporate interests that line up with  consumers for now.  My position on Wheeler has done a full 180 from a year ago. I would have sworn he was going to cave to the cable industry. Now look at him. I'm so proud. I live in a city where Comcast is the only ruling King. You can bet that I will jump ship to w/e other company comes around even if Comcast drops my bill to $0 and gives me unlimited speeds. That is how much I hate them. When Wheeler came on board, most of us were expecting him to fellate the cable industry and send us back to dial up.  He really has stood up for the people...I like that.

The cable industry needs a swift kick in the balls, a nice healthy dose of competition.  Americans are tired of getting raped by the Comcasts, the Time Warners, the Verizons. I say it's time for a change. John Oliver should do a follow-up episode on him.

JO: I thought he was a dingo, turns out he's a labradoodle with a fucking heart. You go Wheeler! And you, dear viewer, should write him and tell him he's alright. Fly my lovelies, fly! Wheeler for Vice Pres.? I think you may be onto something May I remind you, people:

Tom Wheeler originally wanted to *destroy* Net Neutrality completely. We had to scream at him from all angles to get him to stop, and we just barely made it.

I'm happy he's doing the right thing *now*, but always remember to never forget the crimes he's committed in the past just in case he decides to have a sudden Heel-Turn at any moment. I think John Oliver owes this guy an apology. You guys should stop focusing your attention on the red herring that is the cable industry and focus on the tech industry instead.

The cable companies will continue to slowly to die, while things like Google fiber and municipal broadband will continue to grow.  Comcast and Time Warner are dinosaurs that will not possibly succeed once the baby boomers and older gen-xers are gone.
I hate the cable companies as much as anyone else but they are pretty irrelevant except to older people that are too set in their ways to change.  The tech companies, telecoms and the government will own the internet in the future I hated Tom. Now I like Tom. Good job Tom! Fuck cable companies.  Fuckable companies I'm impressed by Wheeler. I keep waiting for the other shoe to drop, and it hasn't happened.  Tell me why I'm wrong.  I'm excited, but skeptical.   It's not just the cable companies.  Territories are often enforced by local governments It's like hitting reboot on how to do business, actually competing for customers by providing better service, wasn't this how this used to work a long time ago? Damn, can someone please get Mr. Wheeler a mic so he can drop it?     Damn, can someone please 
    get Mr. Wheeler a mic 
    so he can drop it? Man, I clearly remember when reddit was shitting on this guy for being an ex member of the cable industry. 

Now , everybody wants to suck his cock. 

 Tom Wheeler is not a dingo! Ok cool but what is he *doing* about it? I've always felt the telecom industry would rather spend 10 million to lobby and do nothing than spend 50 cents on the network and improve something.  No, they're happy to spend 50 cents, the problem comes when it's far cheaper to lobby for 10 million than it is to upgrade for 50 million, even if the rest of the first world puts our infrastructure to shame in the meantime. Saw the title and thought, " why does the smallville star have an opinion on this?" &gt;...use that market power to protect your traditional business in a way that is ultimately harmful to consumers.

Fucking exactly. Exactly. There is one high speed ISP where I live and their prices are wild. Maybe they aren't I dunno, there's nothing to compare to, but $70/month for 50mbps seems high when I know fiber is out there giving one gig for a reasonable price A filibuster where he reads tweets from angry or concerned citizens would be cool.  Wow, that would actually be both very meaningful and provide an endless source of content so he could continue speaking Plus it would be in the record... Senators are allowed to edit the record, though, but that's still a cool idea. Really? That seems like a bad idea.  It's a great idea, if you're a senator. *"This is a great idea!"*    
- A. Senator But then he struck that from the record. Jesus this whole exchange is too real.  "This whole exchange is too real."
 -J. Christ

 It should have an asterisk if it was edited. Only if it was edited more that 5 minutes after it was said. What the actual fuck? What's the point of even having a record then? To be fair, Senate actually voted against this being allowed, but someone edited the record. "I swear we voted for it."

"No you didn't. The record said so."

"Well that's bullshit!"

"To be fair the record said you didn't want it."

"$&amp;!?#!" I certainly hope someone keeps record of the edits. They do, but that can be edited.  He could literally speak forever. *figuratively*  He could speak figuratively for literally forever. Nah he could speak literally for figuratively forever He could figuratively speak forever, literally. HE'LL TALK A LOT 4chan would hijack it instantly. Rand Paul would be reading lots of "ayyy lmao *#*stopthepatriotact" tweets. He doesn't have to automatically read everything tweeted to him... I'm Senator Rand Paul? \#stopusinglogic Paul and Cruz read tweets two years ago when Paul filibustered over drones.

http://www.mediaite.com/tv/rand-paul-filibuster-devolves-in-7th-hour-as-ted-cruz-starts-reading-directly-from-twitter/ In the past senators have read from phone-books. Yeah but that's so 80's. Now they read Yelp reviews. They can't read YouTube comments into the record because that would be cruel and unusual punishment. &gt;that would be cruel and unusual punishment

That's okay, they can just call it "enhanced interrogation" instead. Can they project 4Chan posts and read off the memes? Ah, and electronics aren't allowed on the floor, there goes that plan.   They had staffers print out the tweets and then read them on the floor.  I just envisioned a bunch of senators sitting on the magic carpet in a kindergarten classroom reading tweets. Ever heard of a printer? I can just imagine it: staffers using dozens of old hp printers to print constantly refreshed pages of Twitter, and teams of pages running back and forth to the senate floor stacking up a big pile of staple-bound tweets for Rand Paul to read aloud on camera.

It's... a perfect metaphor for America. It's beautiful. I imagined it with one of those old school impact printers pulling from a spool of continuous feed paper. Oooo what about a *fax*? i'd rather have scribes write it on parchment Good thing interns and printers exist That's a golden idea. Someone contact one of his staffers and let them know.

EDIT: Okay, here's the phone number and email link to contact Rand Paul's office: **202-224-4343** and http://www.paul.senate.gov/connect/email-rand. 

Let's get him to read anti-Patriot Act tweets on the Senate floor. Or he could read reddit comments.

Probably best to stick to Twitter, actually... "Would you want to fight one horse-sized Patriot Act or 100 Patriot Act-sized horses."

EDIT: Thanks for the Gold! And seriously, all joking aside, /u/Likes_Information 's post should get more attention than my silly joke. A horse-sized Patriot Act sounds smaller than a Patriot Act-sized Patriot Act If he read the entire patriot act and then switched over to the ACA, the Senators might learn what it is they're signing into law. This is actually. fucking. genius. 

What better way to get senators to see what's in the bills?

Edit: Fuck. No one else is in the room.  Haha really? Everyone left? Rarely does everyone stay in the room for a filibuster. Working on the hill is time consuming, so they're not just gonna waste time sitting around during filibuster sessions.  They should be forced to stay and either wait it out or give up on the whole thing. Leaving seems like horse shit.  This would be a brilliant method for ANY issue. I did half the work, now all you need to do is find your senators on this list and call them so they know their constituents oppose this ~~unconstitutional~~ really invasive, improperly used, but technically constitutional law:  
Murkowski, Lisa - (R - AK) Ph:(202) 224-6665  
Sullivan, Daniel - (R - AK) Ph:(202) 224-3004  
Sessions, Jeff - (R - AL) Ph:(202) 224-4124  
Shelby, Richard C. - (R - AL) Ph:(202) 224-5744  
Boozman, John - (R - AR) Ph:(202) 224-4843  
Cotton, Tom - (R - AR) Ph:(202) 224-2353  
Flake, Jeff - (R - AZ) Ph:(202) 224-4521  
McCain, John - (R - AZ) Ph:(202) 224-2235  
Boxer, Barbara - (D - CA) Ph:(202) 224-3553  
Feinstein, Dianne - (D - CA) Ph:(202) 224-3841  
Bennet, Michael F. - (D - CO) Ph:(202) 224-5852  
Gardner, Cory - (R - CO) Ph:(202) 224-5941  
Blumenthal, Richard - (D - CT) Ph:(202) 224-2823  
Murphy, Christopher - (D - CT) Ph:(202) 224-4041  
Carper, Thomas R. - (D - DE) Ph:(202) 224-2441  
Coons, Christopher A. - (D - DE) Ph:(202) 224-5042  
Nelson, Bill - (D - FL) Ph:(202) 224-5274  
Rubio, Marco - (R - FL) Ph:(202) 224-3041  
Isakson, Johnny - (R - GA) Ph:(202) 224-3643  
Perdue, David - (R - GA) Ph:(202) 224-3521  
Hirono, Mazie K. - (D - HI) Ph:(202) 224-6361  
Schatz, Brian - (D - HI) Ph:(202) 224-3934  
Ernst, Joni - (R - IA) Ph:(202) 224-3254  
Grassley, Chuck - (R - IA) Ph:(202) 224-3744  
Crapo, Mike - (R - ID) Ph:(202) 224-6142  
Risch, James E. - (R - ID) Ph:(202) 224-2752  
Durbin, Richard J. - (D - IL) Ph:(202) 224-2152  
Kirk, Mark - (R - IL) Ph:(202) 224-2854  
Coats, Daniel - (R - IN) Ph:(202) 224-5623  
Donnelly, Joe - (D - IN) Ph:(202) 224-4814  
Moran, Jerry - (R - KS) Ph:(202) 224-6521  
Roberts, Pat - (R - KS) Ph:(202) 224-4774  
McConnell, Mitch - (R - KY) Ph:(202) 224-2541  
Paul, Rand - (R - KY) Ph:(202) 224-4343  
Cassidy, Bill - (R - LA) Ph:(202) 224-5824  
Vitter, David - (R - LA) Ph:(202) 224-4623  
Markey, Edward J. - (D - MA) Ph:(202) 224-2742  
Warren, Elizabeth - (D - MA) Ph:(202) 224-4543  
Cardin, Benjamin L. - (D - MD) Ph:(202) 224-4524  
Mikulski, Barbara A. - (D - MD) Ph:(202) 224-4654  
Collins, Susan M. - (R - ME) Ph:(202) 224-2523  
King, Angus S., Jr. - (I - ME) Ph:(202) 224-5344  
Peters, Gary - (D - MI) Ph:(202) 224-6221  
Stabenow, Debbie - (D - MI) Ph:(202) 224-4822  
Franken, Al - (D - MN) Ph:(202) 224-5641  
Klobuchar, Amy - (D - MN) Ph:(202) 224-3244  
Blunt, Roy - (R - MO) Ph:(202) 224-5721  
McCaskill, Claire - (D - MO) Ph:(202) 224-6154  
Cochran, Thad - (R - MS) Ph:(202) 224-5054  
Wicker, Roger F. - (R - MS) Ph:(202) 224-6253  
Daines, Steve - (R - MT) Ph:(202) 224-2651  
Tester, Jon - (D - MT) Ph:(202) 224-2644  
Burr, Richard - (R - NC) Ph:(202) 224-3154  
Tillis, Thom - (R - NC) Ph:(202) 224-6342  
Heitkamp, Heidi - (D - ND) Ph:(202) 224-2043  
Hoeven, John - (R - ND) Ph:(202) 224-2551  
Fischer, Deb - (R - NE) Ph:(202) 224-6551  
Sasse, Ben - (R - NE) Ph:(202) 224-4224  
Ayotte, Kelly - (R - NH) Ph:(202) 224-3324  
Shaheen, Jeanne - (D - NH) Ph:(202) 224-2841  
Booker, Cory A. - (D - NJ) Ph:(202) 224-3224  
Menendez, Robert - (D - NJ) Ph:(202) 224-4744  
Heinrich, Martin - (D - NM) Ph:(202) 224-5521  
Udall, Tom - (D - NM) Ph:(202) 224-6621  
Heller, Dean - (R - NV) Ph:(202) 224-6244  
Reid, Harry - (D - NV) Ph:(202) 224-3542  
Gillibrand, Kirsten E. - (D - NY) Ph:(202) 224-4451  
Schumer, Charles E. - (D - NY) Ph:(202) 224-6542  
Brown, Sherrod - (D - OH) Ph:(202) 224-2315  
Portman, Rob - (R - OH) Ph:(202) 224-3353  
Inhofe, James M. - (R - OK) Ph:(202) 224-4721  
Lankford, James - (R - OK) Ph:(202) 224-5754  
Merkley, Jeff - (D - OR) Ph:(202) 224-3753  
Wyden, Ron - (D - OR) Ph:(202) 224-5244  
Casey, Robert P., Jr. - (D - PA) Ph:(202) 224-6324  
Toomey, Patrick J. - (R - PA) Ph:(202) 224-4254  
Reed, Jack - (D - RI) Ph:(202) 224-4642  
Whitehouse, Sheldon - (D - RI) Ph:(202) 224-2921  
Graham, Lindsey - (R - SC) Ph:(202) 224-5972  
Scott, Tim - (R - SC) Ph:(202) 224-6121  
Rounds, Mike - (R - SD) Ph:(202) 224-5842  
Thune, John - (R - SD) Ph:(202) 224-2321  
Alexander, Lamar - (R - TN) Ph:(202) 224-4944  
Corker, Bob - (R - TN) Ph:(202) 224-3344  
Cornyn, John - (R - TX) Ph:(202) 224-2934  
Cruz, Ted - (R - TX) Ph:(202) 224-5922  
Hatch, Orrin G. - (R - UT) Ph:(202) 224-5251  
Lee, Mike - (R - UT) Ph:(202) 224-5444  
Kaine, Tim - (D - VA) Ph:(202) 224-4024  
Warner, Mark R. - (D - VA) Ph:(202) 224-2023  
Leahy, Patrick J. - (D - VT) Ph:(202) 224-4242  
Sanders, Bernard - (I - VT) Ph:(202) 224-5141  
Cantwell, Maria - (D - WA) Ph:(202) 224-3441  
Murray, Patty - (D - WA) Ph:(202) 224-2621  
Baldwin, Tammy - (D - WI) Ph:(202) 224-5653  
Johnson, Ron - (R - WI) Ph:(202) 224-5323  
Capito, Shelley Moore - (R - WV) Ph:(202) 224-6472  
Manchin, Joe, III - (D - WV) Ph:(202) 224-3954  
Barrasso, John - (R - WY) Ph:(202) 224-6441  
Enzi, Michael B. - (R - WY) Ph:(202) 224-3424  
 I didn't feel like hunting down the state in the middle of the line, so here's a copy of the text reformatted to put the state first.  Feel free to adjust the format or run future text posts through my [jsBin](http://jsbin.com/litiwa/1/edit?js,console).

    AK (R) Murkowski,Lisa             Ph: (202) 224-6665  
    AK (R) Sullivan,Daniel            Ph: (202) 224-3004  
    AL (R) Sessions,Jeff              Ph: (202) 224-4124  
    AL (R) Shelby,Richard C.          Ph: (202) 224-5744  
    AR (R) Boozman,John               Ph: (202) 224-4843  
    AR (R) Cotton,Tom                 Ph: (202) 224-2353  
    AZ (R) Flake,Jeff                 Ph: (202) 224-4521  
    AZ (R) McCain,John                Ph: (202) 224-2235  
    CA (D) Boxer,Barbara              Ph: (202) 224-3553  
    CA (D) Feinstein,Dianne           Ph: (202) 224-3841  
    CO (D) Bennet,Michael F.          Ph: (202) 224-5852  
    CO (R) Gardner,Cory               Ph: (202) 224-5941  
    CT (D) Blumenthal,Richard         Ph: (202) 224-2823  
    CT (D) Murphy,Christopher         Ph: (202) 224-4041  
    DE (D) Carper,Thomas R.           Ph: (202) 224-2441  
    DE (D) Coons,Christopher A.       Ph: (202) 224-5042  
    FL (D) Nelson,Bill                Ph: (202) 224-5274  
    FL (R) Rubio,Marco                Ph: (202) 224-3041  
    GA (R) Isakson,Johnny             Ph: (202) 224-3643  
    GA (R) Perdue,David               Ph: (202) 224-3521  
    HI (D) Hirono,Mazie K.            Ph: (202) 224-6361  
    HI (D) Schatz,Brian               Ph: (202) 224-3934  
    IA (R) Ernst,Joni                 Ph: (202) 224-3254  
    IA (R) Grassley,Chuck             Ph: (202) 224-3744  
    ID (R) Crapo,Mike                 Ph: (202) 224-6142  
    ID (R) Risch,James E.             Ph: (202) 224-2752  
    IL (D) Durbin,Richard J.          Ph: (202) 224-2152  
    IL (R) Kirk,Mark                  Ph: (202) 224-2854  
    IN (R) Coats,Daniel               Ph: (202) 224-5623  
    IN (D) Donnelly,Joe               Ph: (202) 224-4814  
    KS (R) Moran,Jerry                Ph: (202) 224-6521  
    KS (R) Roberts,Pat                Ph: (202) 224-4774  
    KY (R) McConnell,Mitch            Ph: (202) 224-2541  
    KY (R) Paul,Rand                  Ph: (202) 224-4343  
    LA (R) Cassidy,Bill               Ph: (202) 224-5824  
    LA (R) Vitter,David               Ph: (202) 224-4623  
    MA (D) Markey,Edward J.           Ph: (202) 224-2742  
    MA (D) Warren,Elizabeth           Ph: (202) 224-4543  
    MD (D) Cardin,Benjamin L.         Ph: (202) 224-4524  
    MD (D) Mikulski,Barbara A.        Ph: (202) 224-4654  
    ME (R) Collins,Susan M.           Ph: (202) 224-2523  
    ME (I) King,Angus S., Jr.         Ph: (202) 224-5344  
    MI (D) Peters,Gary                Ph: (202) 224-6221  
    MI (D) Stabenow,Debbie            Ph: (202) 224-4822  
    MN (D) Franken,Al                 Ph: (202) 224-5641  
    MN (D) Klobuchar,Amy              Ph: (202) 224-3244  
    MO (R) Blunt,Roy                  Ph: (202) 224-5721  
    MO (D) McCaskill,Claire           Ph: (202) 224-6154  
    MS (R) Cochran,Thad               Ph: (202) 224-5054  
    MS (R) Wicker,Roger F.            Ph: (202) 224-6253  
    MT (R) Daines,Steve               Ph: (202) 224-2651  
    MT (D) Tester,Jon                 Ph: (202) 224-2644  
    NC (R) Burr,Richard               Ph: (202) 224-3154  
    NC (R) Tillis,Thom                Ph: (202) 224-6342  
    ND (D) Heitkamp,Heidi             Ph: (202) 224-2043  
    ND (R) Hoeven,John                Ph: (202) 224-2551  
    NE (R) Fischer,Deb                Ph: (202) 224-6551  
    NE (R) Sasse,Ben                  Ph: (202) 224-4224  
    NH (R) Ayotte,Kelly               Ph: (202) 224-3324  
    NH (D) Shaheen,Jeanne             Ph: (202) 224-2841  
    NJ (D) Booker,Cory A.             Ph: (202) 224-3224  
    NJ (D) Menendez,Robert            Ph: (202) 224-4744  
    NM (D) Heinrich,Martin            Ph: (202) 224-5521  
    NM (D) Udall,Tom                  Ph: (202) 224-6621  
    NV (R) Heller,Dean                Ph: (202) 224-6244  
    NV (D) Reid,Harry                 Ph: (202) 224-3542  
    NY (D) Gillibrand,Kirsten E.      Ph: (202) 224-4451  
    NY (D) Schumer,Charles E.         Ph: (202) 224-6542  
    OH (D) Brown,Sherrod              Ph: (202) 224-2315  
    OH (R) Portman,Rob                Ph: (202) 224-3353  
    OK (R) Inhofe,James M.            Ph: (202) 224-4721  
    OK (R) Lankford,James             Ph: (202) 224-5754  
    OR (D) Merkley,Jeff               Ph: (202) 224-3753  
    OR (D) Wyden,Ron                  Ph: (202) 224-5244  
    PA (D) Casey,Robert P., Jr.       Ph: (202) 224-6324  
    PA (R) Toomey,Patrick J.          Ph: (202) 224-4254  
    RI (D) Reed,Jack                  Ph: (202) 224-4642  
    RI (D) Whitehouse,Sheldon         Ph: (202) 224-2921  
    SC (R) Graham,Lindsey             Ph: (202) 224-5972  
    SC (R) Scott,Tim                  Ph: (202) 224-6121  
    SD (R) Rounds,Mike                Ph: (202) 224-5842  
    SD (R) Thune,John                 Ph: (202) 224-2321  
    TN (R) Alexander,Lamar            Ph: (202) 224-4944  
    TN (R) Corker,Bob                 Ph: (202) 224-3344  
    TX (R) Cornyn,John                Ph: (202) 224-2934  
    TX (R) Cruz,Ted                   Ph: (202) 224-5922  
    UT (R) Hatch,Orrin G.             Ph: (202) 224-5251  
    UT (R) Lee,Mike                   Ph: (202) 224-5444  
    VA (D) Kaine,Tim                  Ph: (202) 224-4024  
    VA (D) Warner,Mark R.             Ph: (202) 224-2023  
    VT (D) Leahy,Patrick J.           Ph: (202) 224-4242  
    VT (I) Sanders,Bernard            Ph: (202) 224-5141  
    WA (D) Cantwell,Maria             Ph: (202) 224-3441  
    WA (D) Murray,Patty               Ph: (202) 224-2621  
    WI (D) Baldwin,Tammy              Ph: (202) 224-5653  
    WI (R) Johnson,Ron                Ph: (202) 224-5323  
    WV (R) Capito,Shelley Moore       Ph: (202) 224-6472  
    WV (D) Manchin,Joe, III           Ph: (202) 224-3954  
    WY (R) Barrasso,John              Ph: (202) 224-6441  
    WY (R) Enzi,Michael B.            Ph: (202) 224-3424   serious question, what should i say when i call them? obviously they would like a reason, and nobody wants to be spied on, but what should i say for maximum efficiency? They generally won't ask you to explain your reasoning.  It's enough to call and say,"Hi, my name is X, I'm a STATE NAME voter.  I feel strongly that the patriot act should not be renewed, or a similar bill passed into law in the future.  My decision of whether to vote for INCUMBENT NAME in the upcoming election will be strongly influenced by their stance on this issue." Adding to this, GIVE YOUR ZIP CODE. If your name isn't in their system already, you need to at least give them your zip code. Name, address, email, phone, all of that is optional, but your zip code generally is mandatory for them to log what you're saying. Oh, your name is in their system already. Thanks to the OG Patriot Act.  Thanks for the help, enjoy the gold! Question for the OP above me, I'm not as much of an activist, just someone interested in the topic/comments and annoyed by the formatting. "I didn't feel like looking through the list, so I took the whole damn thing and re-formatted it." [Regexes, dude.](https://xkcd.com/208/)  &gt; Some people, when confronted with a problem, think "I know, I'll use regular expressions." Now they have two problems.

http://regex.info/blog/2006-09-15/247 butttt, my senator IS Rand Paul??

I'm proud! Call McConnell and let him know you won't be voting for him next election if he votes in favor of this bill. Hey me too. 

Then there is Mitch.

Not so proud.  I mean, does this actually ever do anything? Ive called, emailed, etc before but there is no fucking way boxer or feinstein will change their positions even if the entire state of California called them.

Its crushing. I worked a summer as a political staffer, every call gets noted and summary sent up the chain evedy day. So does one call make a difference? Probably not.

Does a note "our phones were ringing all day long, thousands of calls re - patriot act" 
Yeah that gets eyeballs at the highest levels. Only thing worse than answering the phones was sorting through all the emails...

I might have nightmares tonight. At least we had one entertaining conspiracy theory guy call every day but I never once saw an interesting email. We had a lady call us everyday from the closet of a psychiatric hospital.
 Maybe that's because 0.1% of the population does that.  It's such a small amount of people who will actually call or email them that they don't care enough. In my experience I just get a "we can agree to disagree" half-canned response when I contact my representatives. Pretty disheartening. Can you filibuster by just saying "filibuster" for a really long time? Maybe over some sick D&amp;B lines?  You can say whatever you want. He could even start reading from A Song of Ice and Fire if he wanted to, which would actually be pretty epic. Reading from the bible is a known tactic. Id suggest the movie "Mr Smith Goes to Washington" which is about a small town senator who fillibusters in the 40s or something. Old ass movie but good.  Jimmy Stewart for the win. He should just fillibuster with spoilers for every major popular work of fiction. Make the other senators really regret it. And on page 606 of The Patriot Act, Dear Senators, Snape kills Dumbledore.  If they were even there. It's seems most of them have left the room... :P &gt; He could even start reading from A Song of Ice and Fire

He'd finish before GRRM would. Doesn't matter which party flag you fly, if your Senator isn't in line to filibuster the Patriot Act renewal you should ask yourself why you're voting for them. Can the patriot act be renewed after it expires? Or would it require a brand new bill to be presented? I mean a reauthroisatiob bill is basically a new bill. It's just called death heisting but it would do exactly the same thing. So yes new bill but it's not like there would be a different outcome Watch here: http://www.c-span.org/video/?326084-1/us-senate-debate-trade-promotion-authority&amp;amp;live&amp;amp;utm_content=buffer1ef08&amp;amp;utm_medium=social&amp;amp;utm_source=twitter.com&amp;amp;utm_campaign=buffer

Edit:

@YALiberty: "The Bill of Rights is for minorities. The Bill of Rights is for those who have minority opinions."  @RandPaul  #StandWithRand [deleted] nah.  Others will 'ask questions' to allow Mr. Paul to sit down, take a piss, etc. without him losing his position on his Filibuster.

They're helping him out. [deleted] You can take questions without losing the floor.  There's a great *The West Wing* episode where this rule comes into play. The Stackhouse Filibuster, S2E17 Is that show any good? I really enjoyed HoC and it was reccomended afterwards. I really like political shows. Way better than HoC. It's House of Cards without the sensationalism. 

Not that I mind the drama, but the West Wing just...I can't explain it. Just watch it.  Bartlet, the president we deserve...  Better than HoC imo You can also watch here since CSPAN sucks http://floor.senate.gov/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=2&amp;event_id=320 Did we blow it up? Link isn't working for me. Cspan links worked for me.  But Im white. Go Rand. Nobody is perfect, but at least he is standing up for the good of his constituents.  With this he is representing what a majority of American citizens want despite their political leanings. This is what our elected officials are supposed to do. Represent the people. I'm sorry he's the only one doing it. This is a no brainer.  yeah, no doubt. I'm just saying that Senators are elected primarily to represent the will and best interests of the people who voted them to the office. It just so happens that Rand is standing up for an issue that the majority of Americans in all states agree with. Too bad he's one of the only Senators who does his job. So true. It's just disappointing that he is the only Senator representing what his people want. There should be a line behind him from both parties to go next since Americans don't want this Justin Amash and Thomas Massie are two more bad asses you should really look into. Yeah I do like Amash. Hopefully the House doesn't ruin him.  I met Amash back when he was a freshman in Congress. The guy is awesome and I hope to see him do a lot more in the future. Well technically Senators were elected to represent the interests of the state.  Your Congressperson was elected to represent you.

The 17th Amendment changed how senators were elected. Previously the state government elected them, the 17th changed it to the people.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seventeenth_Amendment_to_the_United_States_Constitution im not a huge fan of rand paul, but ill recognize when a man is doing the right thing. Good luck, sir Even if he's doing it to improve his 2016 prospects, it's a refreshing change of pace. 

I'm enjoying listening to him speak in the background as I browse Reddit.  I would rather see a candidate do something like this than defend the Iraq war. God, Jeb is such a joke. It's 2015 and he's quagmired in controversies that are 10 years old. No man who's been a leader of Florida is competent to lead America.  If the race comes down to Jeb and Hillary god help us all Bush vs Clinton: Round 2! That's what the media wants  The media are stupid heads! You tell 'em! Does Ross Perot have a kid? No he does not.  No one ever let that man finish.  Not even one time. 

Edit: Thanks gold, and enjoy the clip for those of you who don't know.  Here's [Dana Carvey](http://www.nbc.com/saturday-night-live/video/ross-perot-larry-king-cold-opening/n10892) Jeb &amp; Hillary, the epitome of having to choose between a "Douchebag and a Turd Sandwhich."   which one is which? Isn't it obvious?  &gt; Even if he's doing it to improve his 2016 prospects, it's a refreshing change of pace.

He definitely genuinely hates the Patriot Act. I think he would do this even if he wasn't running. Don't think its to improve his prospects. He filibustered years ago when Obama appointed the new Director of the CIA who defended the use of torture. It was truly hilarious, he even managed to begin reading from 'Alice in Wonderland'

EDIT: Here's the sources for those who asked.

Yup, here you go:

[News proof of the Rand Paul's Senate filibuster of Obama's nomination of John Brennan in 2013](http://www.rollcall.com/news/10_best_moments_of_rand_pauls_filibuster-222918-1.html)

[And here is proof of John Brennan's support of torture when the Senate report came out.](http://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/2p2ys9/the_cia_directors_unwitting_case_for_torture/)

http://www.thenation.com/article/193185/cia-didnt-just-torture-it-experimented-human-beings He should have started reading game of thrones, specifically all the chapters with huge spoilers. I bet people would have gotten off their asses and started bustling!  Holy shit, yes. 

I believe there was a teacher who used a similar tactic. Wrote the names of all the major characters on the board, declared something along the lines of "I know all the books. I know who will die and how. Do your homework/study, or I start spoiling." It was a successful strategy if I remember correctly.  I don't think that's the case.  The first time I gained respect for him was the last time the Patriot Act came up for renewal, was being shoved through without debate or discussion, and because he stood up and said basically, "maybe we should actually TALK about this he was derided by both sides with Harry Reid (if memory serves me) basically said Paul was supporting the terrorists by wanting to not pass the bill without discussion.   It felt like an episode of the Twilight Zone and really emphasized for me how much of the partisan bullshit is intented to distract the public from the fact we basically live in a corporatocracy.  Harry Reid is a piece of shit. As is the majority of the Congressional leadership. The parties could do much better than Reid, McConnell, Pelosi, and Boehner.  &gt; Even if he's doing it to improve his 2016 prospects

Isn't that the point of democracy? To create an incentive for the leaders to act in the interest of their constituents.  Counterpoint: President Obama. 

As a candidate, he said a lot of amazing, progressive things like protecting whistle blowers. As a President, he flipped-flopped on a lot of the things he said. 

Candidates have an incentive to say what they need to to get into office, and then have less incentive once in office to follow through on their campaign promises.  Like kids running for class president and promising slushie machines. WE NEVER GOT THE SLUSHIES WE WERE PROMISED MICHAEL  &gt;Even if he's doing it to improve his 2016 prospects

I doubt it, he and his father have a history of doing this. These are politicians who are true to their word.  It's very brave of him to stand up to the military industrial complex  According to politico he is under a time limit, so it's not really a filibuster, but still nice to see someone trying to stop this thing. Does anyone understand the procedural rules that prevent him from filibustering?

I can't find a full explanation anywhere except for things like, 'he will have to stop tomorrow at 1pm' There's nothing up for a vote. Ergo not a [filibuster](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filibuster#United_States).

If/when it comes to that he (or any other senator) will likely have the opportunity to do so. From the Washington Post:


Here is how Pauls speech stands to affect Senate business should it continue past midnight: Paul is already keeping the managers of the trade legislation from processing amendments to that bill, which could affect whether the legislation gains the 60 votes tomorrow necessary to close debate and move toward final passage. If he keeps talking past midnight, he will delay McConnell from filing a cloture motion on legislation to address the impending Patriot Act lapse, pushing those votes into Saturday or beyond. And while the Senate was already on a trajectory toward some rare weekend work, given Democrats pledges to draw out debate on the trade bill, Pauls maneuverings could guarantee it.

In the words of my Post colleague Paul Kane, if this isnt a filibuster, theres no such thing as a filibuster. I'm seeing a lot of comments along the lines of "I don't like him but I do respect him". I'm not an American so can anyone fill me in to what he has done that makes him unpopular on this site. Is it just because he's republican?  He's Republican. He's opposed to abortion, same sex marriage (though he wants the law to change so that there isn't a difference legally), and a few other things that don't sit well with non Republicans. He's leaning Libertarian on some issues such as this and things like police demilitarization, which is understandable as his father is Ron Paul (a leading Libertarian politician). His Libertarian leanings can also put people off. One point, yes he's opposed to abortion and same sex marriage personally. However, based on some of his past statements and libertarian leanings, I severely doubt he would try to pass laws regarding these things. Rather, let the states decide.

Ron Paul was anti-abortion and anti-same sex. But he would have been more likely to approve these things occurring than pass laws against them. Exactly. He's definitely a states rights guy. He may have certain beliefs, but he and his father have always advocated for States to be the law of their own land, and the federal govt to take a back seat on nearly everything that isn't specifically mentioned in the Constitution/Bill of Rights. 

That means he believes the governments of each state should determine the laws regarding gay marriage, marijuana, abortion, education, income tax, welfare, healthcare, business regulation, unions, etc.  Wait he's Ron Paul's son!? Damn, I always assumed Ron was like 60 years old, turns out he's 80.  His age was one of the biggest points of his adversaries when he was trying to run for office. Eh at the very start yes, but he challenged them all to a 2 mile bike race and they stopped talking about it pretty quick. Dude is fit as fuck for an octogenarian  *"Fight me 1v1 bro IRL I will wreck you"*

-Ron Paul He's a conservative libertarian. Basically the essence of what Reddit hates and the essence of what Reddit loves, wrapped up into one person. C-SPAN needs a live chat like Twitch Can someone who understands senate floor rules explain how long this might last and what the possible outcomes are? Paul is not actually filibustering today, he's speaking during a predetermined 30 hour debate window. 

http://www.politico.com/story/2015/05/rand-paul-filibuster-patriot-act-118141.html?hp=t4_r Wow...all the other senators walked out and he has to keep fillibustering...

Thats fucked up. Most of the time there are only 2 or 3 senators in the chamber when they are debating billz. And we wonder why the govt has destroyed the trust of the people. They cant even be bothered to listening to each other when a debate is happening....let alone one as critical as this. They debate these things in committees. Nothing important happens on the floor, that's why there are cameras in there.

edit: nothing important except the votes. Are those the same committees that have been scolded yet nothing is done about the members of the committee not even reading things all the way through before there's a vote? Yep, the very same. I'm not saying every member of congress is great, or that they all do good work in committees. I'm saying that the place where actual debate takes place is in committees. Whether or not it happens in every single committee is irrelevant, it happens there, not on the floor. Bernie Sanders vs. Rand Paul would make for an interesting year on Reddit. I would love this election. Steve Daines (Montana, R) allowed Paul to keep the floor and is speaking at length against the NSA data collection. I'm half in tears with happiness. THIS is how the government should work. He's quoting Jefferson's cheesy liberty quote. 

Wow, what an occurrence.

ninja edit: He's quoting the constituents of his that have called him and told him their thoughts. YES!!! Anyone else notice that it says no other senators are in the chamber?  Is it just Rand and Ron Wyden barking at an empty room that is usually full of empty minds? Its often empty unless there is something pressing that's being debated along party lines and needs to sway a few senators to pass.  I want a job where I get paid well, crazy benefits, pension, and a expense account, where I don't have to show up too most of the time. Well, not to defend them, but...  Just b/c they're not in main senate chambers it doesn't mean they're not working.  They often meet with constituents and have to deal with constituent issues.   They also have committee and sub-committee meetings among other things.  Oh, and of course raise money for campaigns and meet with lobbyists. The Senate chamber is just where the votes are held. The actual work is mostly done in offices and conference rooms.  Don't forget sell your soul. ctrl+f "begun"

0 matches I dunno how someone says "has began" in their head without realizing how ridiculous it sounds.  Woooooh Ron Wyden!!! That's the most airtime Oregon has gotten since... well forever. :/  Say what u will about republicans but he's the only politician I know that's bringing light to the patriot act and its countless slaps in the face to the American people. I'm a democrat and I'd vote for this man  Ron Wyden (Democrat of Oregon) is also helping out. It's nice to see a bipartisan alliance against domestic spying. Sadly, there's an even larger bipartisan alliance *in favor* of domestic spying...
 The floor has been yielded at 11:48PM EST after 10.5 hours. not surprised to see this so high on the front page of /r/technology while simultaneously hidden amongst the shitposts in /r/news and /r/worldnews 

this sub doesn't disappoint Worldnews doesn't allow American news But yet half the topics and discussions in the threads are about America! /r/politics actually removed some of the early posts and now the existing ones don't have much traction. It's crazy how that sub has forced everyone out who doesn't agree with their agenda.  /r/politics is a garbage dump. That place is a pit Because it isn't Bernie Sanders or Liz Warren doing this.  Both /r/politics and /r/news have actively been removing threads relating to the filibuster.  Both subs removed major threads with tons of traction.  Now the only one I am aware of is a smaller thread in /r/politics that will probably be removed soon. I usually hate x-posted politics, but given /r/politics will delete posts that show a Republican in a positive light, I'm actually glad this got posted here.  

This issue is **far** too important to be saddled by petty partisan politics.  

I'm glad right wingers, like Rand Paul, **and** left wingers, like Russ Feingold, oppose the Patriot Act.  It's time for it to end. My friend actually posted this to /r/politics and they deleted it because he linked the CSPAN video page and changed the link title to "[LIVE] Senator Rand Paul Filibustering PATRIOT ACT on the Senate Floor" instead of the default "Video Player" the page was titled as. Anybody else helping? Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) Is asking a "question" of Rand right now (a loophole which allows the person filibustering to take a break while not ceding the floor).  Wyden did the same thing, they've been switching on and off. This is brilliant.  I knew how filibusters worked, but had no idea that people could 'ask questions'.

I was watching when Wyden first requested to ask a long-winded quetion, sat back and was impressed with our system.  I was imagining him running out into the hall, stuffing his face with Cheez-Its, a swig of Diet Coke, and taking a quick piss before returning to answer his 'question'

Love it. There is a great episode of the West Wing that deals with this very thing.  I don't know about this particular filibuster, but Ron Wyden (D) from Oregon has been decrying domestic spying for years and years. Yep, looks like Wyden is providing long, rambling questions to give Paul a break. Wyden is speaking right now Ron Wyden stepped down, Paul started talking again, now Mike Lee (R) is speaking 1629 EDT.   OP, you should really edit your post to include the hyperlink to the filibuster.

http://floor.senate.gov/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=2&amp;event_id=320

http://www.c-span.org/video/?326084-1/us-senate-debate-trade-promotion-authority&amp;live&amp;utm_content=buffer1ef08&amp;utm_medium=social&amp;utm_source=twitter.com&amp;utm_campaign=buffer Rand is referencing 1984 right now.  This guy is the best Republican hope at the moment.  Go Rand, go! We need more people like him who "do the right thing" over voting the party line.  I've just checked CNN, FOX news, BBC News (American page), etc. and none of them are covering. This is ridiculous. Reddit once again delivering way before any of that garbage.  I strongly disagree with Rand on several issues but it's nice to have a senator that actually walks his talk, that's all you can really ask for. If it was Bernie Sanders, Reddit would become one big erection. Plenty of Reddit likes Rand, he's just not the more popular choice especially with Reddits more liberal leanings. But if the election came down to Paul vs Sanders I'd be pretty happy. I think the world would be pretty happy. /r/circlejerk would implode guaranteed. Finally someone with some balls.  His father has balls. Go to town Rand. Godspeed. Ploys are when politicians promise free university education but never explain how it's paid for. Ploys are telling us about family values but never saying what they are about. Ploys are when they prey upon the uneducated or the worries of us all. I swear I'll vote for anybody that says "yeah, i'm a screw up just like all of you are...i did blank and blank..have at it"  ... that is a person I'd have a wee bit of faith in. Did he just finish, holy shit that was long. I'm going to vote for Rand Paul whether reddit likes it or not. Go, Rand, go! **This** is why I'm going to stand with Rand in 2016. Fuck some of you guys make me sick, this guy is exposing pressing issues which no one else has the balls to do and you think this is a publicity stunt? Do you even give a shit anymore? Fucking hell.

You're so dedicated to party allegiance which is insane, you should be worried about your rights and freedoms not a individual political affiliation. Obama and Bush enforced this data collection ILLEGALLY, you should be really fucking mad.

People are so worried about corporations and their private data, look at how the government functions and say it's okay.

To the anonymous person that purchased reddit gold for me, thank you. 

No matter what side of the line you stand on, you should be on Rand's side when it comes to this issue even if he is powerless to do anything about it at this point in time. He is trying to make Americans aware of what is really going on, the more people that become aware the more power you will all have.
 A) the top comments in this thread as of right now are mostly saying they support him on this, despite his other policies and B) it *IS* a publicity stunt. That doesn't make it a bad thing. Bringing publicity to an unpopular bill, and the fact that it's about to be renewed, is needed to get the electorate to pay more attention. That said, this won't actually stop the bill from going forward, so it doesn't have any legislative impact, it only impacts the visibility.  So it ended before midnight. Does that mean it was pointless? I'm not knowledgeable on senate proceedings.
 I'm so impressed ... by a politician.  Nope don't think that's come out of my mouth before. There is hope after all! I've been watching for a couple hours now, listening to Mr. Paul talk. His voice reminds me of Little Finger from "Game of Thrones" I cant unhear this now. I'm halfway expecting the opposing Senators to start calling him out on his brothels. Finding it bizarre the flood of people trashing this and giving misinformation. And even if this just ends up being a publicity stunt, as if that is a bad thing. The public needs to know about this extension vote. And at the very least, he's putting a spotlight on the public not agreeing with this bill. What the public thinks if often drowned out. Now we are talking about this bill and its extension, and how a lot of Americans are not okay with it.

But yeah, people keep making bullshit comments about how how it's not a filibuster and how it's just grandstanding blah blah blah. Despite the fact that it's already known that if he goes past midnight, it will have an impact on legislature. But yet again, even if it didn't, as if this isn't still a good thing.

I'm not a libertarian and so I don't agree with Rand on a lot of things. But some people need to stop going ZOMG it's a republican, it's that nut job Rand Paul. Focus on the issues you idiots.

 Where is the fuck is Bernie sanders on this ??!! 


Why isn't he helping rand??? 


Is rand the only candidate who gives a fuck about us!!??  Remember, you can vote for this guy to be President. I freak'n love Rand. Is there a place to watch it from the beginning, I would like to have a recording of it? I may disagree with Republicans on a plethora of issues, but here our interests converge. It should be obvious that a state which spies on its own citizens, even without previous wrongdoing or suspicion of wrongdoing, is abusing its power. The vague threat of terrorism has been used to erode civil liberties to an alarming degree, even though Americans are far more likely to be struck by lightning than be the victim of a terrorist attack, wasting billions of taxpayer dollars in the process. It has to end.   He has relinquished the floor -- he's finished for now. I really hope that he wins the republican primaries. Yeah, he is against abortion and gay marriage, however, he also has stated that he wants the states to decide whether or not those things are legal. I highly doubt he is going to pass laws against these things. He's refreshing. If it's Jeb Bush running, the Republican party will lose, and let's hope if he's going to be a candidate, it's against Bernie, because if it's against Hillary, god help us all. "To be left alone in our castle, or in today's time, to be left alone in our cloud."  Wow that was nice.  I wonder if that was off the cuff or if he has bookmarked that in his head prior to his speech.
 No post on this from /r/politics but only /r/technology. I dont know how /r/politics became "downvote because republican." /r/politics deleted a thread with 1k upvotes for "unacceptable headline" The stupidest thing about blocking direct sales is that its still legal to own a car purchased through direct sales somewhere else. If someone is willing to drop $70k on a car, they're willing to drive out of state to do it. In Texas: You walk into a Tesla show room, sit in a car, talk with a Tesla employee. You like the car, so the Tesla employee tells you to go to teslamotors.com to order one. 30-60 days later, you pick it up or have it towed to you from a bordering state.

Outside Texas: You walk into a Tesla show room, sit in a car, talk with a Tesla employee. You like the car, so the Tesla employee brings you to a computer in the back and sits next to you while you go to teslamotors.com to order one. 30-60 days later, you pick it up or have it towed to you.

Not much different... Tesla doesn't have dealerships where you can pick a car off a lot, buy it and drive it home in any state. You have to order online, and wait for delivery. The only difference between states with weird dealership laws and those without is whether you can talk to someone in-person about pricing, financing, and test drives. I would imagine when they reach the point of selling sub 30k vehicles they'll start keeping inventory in stock so to speak. At that point the ability to sell direct to customers will be important.  I'm sure they'd like to, I'm not terribly optimistic they'll be capable. Tesla barely makes a few thousand cars a month. They're a year behind on making a single Model X, and will be splitting manufacturing capacity between that and the Model S when they start deliveries later this year. They're already 2 months behind on delivering orders. They've already had to sell some of their meager test drive fleet to customers just to meet demand for $100K+ luxury vehicles and not miss very conservative estimates for quarterly financial reports (important to their stock price). The pace they've increased monthly car deliveries since 2012 has not been very impressive. When we get to 2017/2018 and they start delivering a Model 3, theoretically, they'll probably barely be able to keep up with that. Making *extra* cars to fill thousands of lots across the country is *probably* going to be logistically impossible. They're scaling intelligently. If they tried to scale too quickly to meet demand their quality would surely suffer.  keeping the demand up, keeps the price up. And where the sales tax goes. The state you register your car in. Texas would get the money either way. And that's exactly what will happen. In fact, the only person I actually know that owns a Tesla lives in Austin. However, "driving out of state" when you live in Texas is not as easy as it is in other states. Texas is *big*.

Edit: It seems you can buy a Tesla on the internet and have it trailer-ed to your house. This law just means you can't test drive a Tesla from a "showroom", talk pricing or financing with a Tesla sales rep, or order it at their "store". It seems this legislation is merely lip-service, and does very little to actually restrict Texans access to Tesla automobiles.

Seriously, if you're going to be waiting over a month for delivery regardless, this isn't about Tesla at all. It must be about avoiding precedent for direct sales to protect existing dealerships. You can still order it and have it delivered. No need to drive anywhere. Unless they are going to start banning interstate commerce. Sure but $70k is a lot of money, if you aren't willing to spend a weekend to pick it up you aren't really interested in a Tesla.  Or just have it delivered. Hell, in a few years the Tesla will just deliver itself. I could totally see that. They punch in your address, it drives off. Stops at recharging stations for battery replacements(Brand new battery's from the factory so should not be an issue leaving them there.) Pulls up to your house at 3AM like a creepy stalker. Drives over your petunias and parks its self on your neighbors yard gnome which is now in their front living room watching TV on its side. So what you're telling me is that Tesla...*isn't*...DiGornio? Yuuuup. Same in michigan yet I see about 5 daily here in my suburbs. So glad that almost half a mill left our state economy. No, state got the sales tax still.  The money would all go to Tesla anyways. This is the same representative that's [trying to force small breweries to sell beer through disributors](http://www.houstoniamag.com/eat-and-drink/gastronaut/articles/houston-march-2015).

Incidentally, the Texas Automobile Dealers Association is one of her top campaign donors. Reference: http://www.followthemoney.org/entity-details?eid=6387063&amp;default=candidate Democrat state senator. It's worth pointing out. This is a Democrat who has been in office since 1972. Liberal Texan redditors in her district could do something about this.

It's kind of funny (in an appalling way) how many people in the comments here just assumed this was a GOP lawmaker. Taking bribes in the form of campaign donations seems to be one thing both sides agree on. I assumed it was a GOP lawmaker because I figured a democrat wouldn't have any saying power in TX. I assume it's like Republicans in Illinois. They are elected equally. I would assume they tailor their message to the audience. Republicans in Illinois don't do the anti-gay, pro-religious hubub, because they will never be elected on it, except in certain counties. They also tailor their congressional district boundaries to their audience. Houston is liberal. So is Austin. There are small democratic pockets scattered around TX.  Most big cities and pretty much all college towns. But the gerrymandering, too strong. But term limits only lead to abuse of power and undo influence from lobbyists...oh wait... Two sides of the same coin. The only presumption i made was that it was a politician because they all pull the same shit regardless of which animal they associate with.  One thing that I've noticed in Texas is we sure have a lot of high-level politicians that are mean, hateful assholes, regardless of party affiliation. Texas -&gt; America -&gt; Planet Earth  -&gt; A'tehk Wilderness -&gt; Jorblaxian Empire Claimed Territories I don't know what this is in reference to but I like the implication -&gt; sector 5 -&gt; unknown worlds -&gt; tittlemans crest You can tell because party isn't mentioned in the title on Reddit. The article linked to does mention both parties agreeing to allow it. Why the heck did it fail then? 

And I never understood the point of having a forced dealer, it just means higher cost and more overhead for the buyer in the long run  I think you *do* understand the point of a dealer. All the Texas Automobile Dealers Association had to do was say "TADA" ^\*with ^money As a non-American, this sounds insanely anti-American (in spirit at least).

Isn't she basically saying "fuck independent businesses and the free market"? Tesla didn't talk to the business lords about where they could do business. Amazon really should have sat down with bookstores and other retailers first. You mean Mr. Amazon. Tesla should sell vehicles through amazon.  I would love that. Why not, Nissan did it. Borders would agree with that. Looks like we are going to have to wake Mr Tesla up

Edit: thanks for the gold! We'll need to reanimate his corpse.  If only we had a way to direct large amounts of electricity to a specified point.  This guy is going to be haunted by a very sad Mr. Tesla. "Why won't you let me sell my cars? :("  Sad?  Tesla died angry and insane, no reason to believe his ghost wouldn't be the same.  He'd probably start with descendants of Edison and Marconi (Marcogni?). That is why I laughed my ass off when I found out that asshat JP Morgan actually seized Edison Electric from Thomas Edison after he screwed over Tesla and then Morgan threw Edison out of his own company. Macaroni?
 Pensylvania.  Pepe Silvia? Not only do all of these people exist, but they're all wondering where their mail is. It's all they're talking about up there! Caaaaarooooole! Caaaaarooooole!  Took me way to long to realize that Charlie was reading Pennsylvania wrong because he's illiterate  Don't feel bad, Glenn Howerton confirmed this was actually a complete coincidence and they actually didn't write it to be that way. I get that reference. I have reddited too much today...  Nah, I've reddited for like 2 minutes today and ***I*** get that reference. You've just been on reddit and awake...  right the first time...Marconi....Guglielmo Marconi He's busy hacking the interwebs with Mr. 4chan Yeah him, Mr Ford, Mr Chrysler, Mr Toyota and Mr General Motors should all be woken up too.  [Mr. Toyoda](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Akio_Toyoda), CEO of Toyota, is alive and well.

Generals Motors and Electric are too busy with their army assignments... Be sure to use AC to reanimate him.  He won't respond well to DC. Should we send him a pigeon? I'm sure his other correspondent, Mr. SpaceX, is more than qualified to field any questions Mr. Senator might have. This senator just sounds so fucking ignorant. Like a quote from my grandma.  &gt; Mr Tesla

Nikola? Niiiikolaaaaaaaaa Hey Nikola...want to go bowling? He'll power beeg american cities I'm sure he *currently* has an *alternate* plan. Was this to the tune of the Ricola commercials?
 That's how I read it. tetsuoooooo Kanedaaaaaa! Did you know one can snort chunks of apple out one's nose?

Neither did I.

Congratulations. Did you know that you *can't* snort Oreos out your nose?  That was the worst day of summer camp ever. He does wonders for your scratchy throat. Someone should tell this senator that The Prestige is a documentary. You can call me Tesla, Nikola, impeccably dressed. Giving lessons in electrical nemesis; this will be on the test! So confess to your thefts and let the whole world know what the Serbian did for the Wizard of Menlo! History is getting re-written and I have Reddit! Your best invention was a way to steal credit. I'm so proud of you guys :) Edison: The truth hertz, you're broke and washed up. Translated to "what really happened" language: "You need to pay the dealership 'taxes and bribes' fees if you want to sell cars in Texas". If you're gonna play in Texas, you gotta have a fiddle in the band. That electric car is hot but not for a lobbying man.  So grease on up those palms of dealerships and let's all dance If yer gonna play in Texas, you gotta pay or diddle with the man. Too few redditors are going to catch mid-80s Alabama lyric references. I think you underestimate how many redditors are 30- to 40-somethings who surf the internet all day. Shhh.  We like to be not spoken of. 50 something incognito. Late twenties Ohioan here; most people who grew up in the country/rural America are going to get the reference.

Seriously, my mother isn't aware that Alabama withdrawal ISN'T fatal. I'm 21 and I got the reference. I think he underestimates the musical influence of parents who can't let go of the mid-80s. 21 as well with parents who love Alabama as well. It's all I ever heard as a child.  25 year old mississippi boy who caught it here.

Yes, we have internet.  We just have to draw it from a well in 500mb buckets. I think you're both underestimating our generations taste of music! 31 points...
  
There are dozens of us! DOZENS! You act like the Devil isn't *always* in the house of the rising sun. More like "you need to pay me more than the dealerships pay me and then we will allow direct sales." On a happier note, negotiations with Mr. Ford seem to be going well. Mr. KIA is furious. Sure, but E. Honda is still fat and prone to Street Fighting. Although there are at least descendants of Henry involved in the company still. &gt;[She has been elected to 20 terms in office](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Senfronia_Thompson)

76 years old, been in office for 43 years. **43 years**. 

She's old enough to have actually met "Mr. Tesla" as a child. Just saying. Welcome to Texas, where you can do whatever the hell you want and still get reelected due to gerrymandering. "Mr. Tesla".

THIS is how ignorant this Senator is. Two motivations in this. 

The car dealers are heavy supporters of state politicians. 

Payback because Tesla, didn't build its new battery plant in Texas.  Well, it's not like Texans aren't accustomed to having to drive. Time to leave to a neighboring state to get your car and pay sales tax on it. Ye haw! Tesla dealerships are going to become like firework stands, set up right on the border between states where they're allowed and states where they're not.  But isn't the point that Tesla isn't going to *have* dealerships?  I thought that's the point of the direct sales model.  You buy your car from the Tesla website and they deliver it to your home.  No dealership necessary. No, that's how it currently works. You can order a Tesla to your house directly today, no matter where you live. The problem is with Tesla wanting to establish brick-and-mortar, for lack of a better term, dealerships, where you can test drive a model, finance, and drive away in a new car. So, if I'm understanding the article correctly, this would also ban Ford, GM and others from selling cars directly to consumers, correct?  Is there any reason Tesla can't just call their owned &amp; operated stores "franchises" on paper to get around this?  Are dealerships *required* to stock cars from multiple manufacturers?  I don't think that's the case, but I could be wrong. You're not wrong. The reason Tesla doesn't do that is added cost to the consumer. Ford, GM, and others don't own or franchise their dealerships. Private individuals start a business and enter into an agreement with one or more automakers. This is the method of buying a car that people are trying to protect by law in a physical retail space because it allows a third party, the dealer, to mark up the price and make a cut. Tesla is attempting to skirt that process in order to keep costs down for consumers.  Car dealers are also heavy supporters of traditional media who won't stick their necks out on this issue. I can't wait till they die off. I'm so fucking sick of entire industries refusing to evolve.

Evolve or fucking die. Don't abuse the system to do neither. Can someone explain to me why Elon would first schedule a meeting with his competitors before trying to sell a product in TX? 99% sure that isn't a standard business practice in every other industry, state, country, continent, and planet.... Car Dealers are not Tesla's competitors, they are middle men. This distribution model made sense back in the day to ensure adequate car buying process for the consumer. However, the world has drastically changed since the 60s. Since Tesla is not just selling a product, but rather a product category, it is important to maintain control of the distribution channel. Car dealers' monopoly exists only due to legislature, thus they make sure that they have influence over people who have the power to change legislature. Which is why, you see people elected to represent interests of the many making laws that represent interests of the few...


Edit: never
mind, confused would for wouldn't  &gt; Car Dealers are not his competitors

Since he would be selling cars in the same cities that they sell cars in, wouldn't he also be competing with them? He's the one entering the retail space they already occupy.

edit: I'm not saying Telsa shouldn't be able to sell cars, I'm just pointing out that yes they would be directly competing with other car dealers since they would also be dealing their own cars. Think of it like computers. The Texas legislators want him to talk to Best Buy and other consumer electronics stores instead of opening his own Apple style stores. Doing it their way, he doesn't get the chance to compete with the dealers thanks to protectionist laws.  Perfect analogy.  Furthermore since unlike a Best Buy where Apple can just have their products sold there, I'm pretty sure Tesla is forced to open their own dealerships since I assume no Ford-Lincoln or Chevy-GMC dealers are going to let him sell his cars there.  It's not competition for retail space that's the Dealers worry about. Tesla could have opened up a dealership in Texas and the GM and Ford dealers wouldn't be worried one bit. It's Tesla going away from the dealer business model that they are frightened of. They don't want a precedent set for other car manufacturers to start selling directly to customers. 

The dealers are just seeing the end of their profession. At some point in the future, it wouldn't surprise me if many cars are sold directly to the customer from the manufacturer. The only thing dealer's offer for a new car purchase is the ability to test drive models. I can think of other ways for manufacturers to offer that.  A friend of mine bought a Tesla from his iPhone.  I'll say the world has changed.   what a world where you can buy a luxury electric car while sitting on your toilet all on your phone you barely use for actual phone calls but mostly for playing games while sitting on the toilet.  i hope that direct selling becomes a more popular thing among other manufacturers, it would help bring prices down. This is the same reason that realtors exist, not to fill a specific niche but because their professional orgs spent a metric fuckton on lobbying. But you don't HAVE to use a realtor, just like I shouldn't HAVE to go through a car dealership.  Texas is bad there too.  Online tools like Zillow are not allowed access to sales history and such for Texas.  Only realty organizations are allowed to have such data.  So it is difficult to value property without a realtor.

~~And as long as I'm bitching about sketchy shit in Texas another one is that sales tax on car purchases is levied on the difference between the purchased car and trade-in car *if and only if purchased from a dealer*.  8+% is nothing to scoff at.  This definitely gives dealers an unnatural advantage over private sale.~~

Edit:  While the above paragraph is true, it has been brought to my attention that it is in no way unique to Texas.  42 of 50 states have a similar policy.  I still believe that such targeted tax breaks (or incentives or whatever you want to call them) are much more of a boon to dealers than everyone else, though.  They are an incentive for a businesses disguised as a tax break (or whatever) for consumers.  damn, and all this time I was told Texas was the right-wing bastion of the free market.  Hahahahaha.   

Sorry,  I live here and the only thing free in our market is the ability to buy whatever politician you can afford.  Want to buy liquor on Sunday? Nope. Want to buy a Tesla? No. Want to refuse to sell your house for a private development? Nope.   

We don't do that free love, free market, commie shit here.  But you can build your unregulated chemical plant across the street from both an elementary school and a high school. Does Texas just do it all automatically wrong?

Oh and in the news today you can put your drilling rig as close to someone's backyard as you like, to hell with their health and safety in their own home. If you're referring to the explosion in West, TX the schools were actually built after the fertilizer plant. 

That was poor municipal planning.  Texas: The needs of the corporation &gt; the needs of the citizens FTFY: Texas was the right-wing bastion of the ~~free market.~~ rich getting richer.   To be fair, I don't want dead people selling stuff either. Poor senator thinks that a dead person will be selling cars, of-course that is a bad idea.  I would have been pumped to meet Mr. Tesla, granted zombied and toward the end of his life he was pretty crazy so that might put a damper on things. Though it still would be a better buying experience than I have had in years. Why can't Tesla start selling a $70k tshirt and give a free car with it? "This car is the Certificate of Authenticity of the branded shirt you have bought." We believe in a free market... unless that free market challenges entrenched wealth.  Evolution is a real thing and it's time the dinosaurs went ahead and died off to allow those better suited to survive, to live on.

I dislike car dealerships. My last 4 vehicles have been of my choosing.  Research the hell out of them, acquire my financing and when I'm ready, go directly for the vehicle I want. The sales guys only type up the paperwork and transfer me to the financial dept. They don't sell me anything.  It blows my mind that people do it any other way. You shouldn't be relying on a salesperson for any sort of advice or guidance for a purchase that major, you should be doing research and test driving.  My parents always default to the judgment of salespeople. 

"Well, I just did what I was told was best. They're experts, after all!" 

They usually get the expensive option, the upgrades, the premium package, everything; because the salesman says it's the "best." 

Of course they fucking say the most expensive thing is the best. 

Blows my mind.  I'm a salesperson for a niche product. The kind of product that you need to salesperson to guide you. I find it excruciatingly difficult to get people to trust me even though I pride myself on my honesty. That's because you have generations of sleazy salespeople standing behind you reminding your customer that salespeople are dishonest. 

Everyone has been fucked over by a salesperson at some point. When you find an honest one, you just assume the sound you're hearing is horses, like normal, not zebras.  It's a conflict of interest, just basic game theory. There's no inherent reason they should trust you, even if you're the most knowledgeable about your product. You have an interest in making money, which means you have an interest in hiding any of your products shortcomings or flaws and pointing out your competitor's shortcomings and flaws. There's no way a consumer could get an unbiased opinion from you. There's no way a consumer could know that you've told them everything, that you're not lying to them or leaving out details.

Either the consumer has to be already knowledgeable about your product, or they have to trust someone else that is. They can't trust you, ergo, you always need a third party. I haven't bought a car in a long time, but is it actually possible to forgo a car salesman when you buy a brand new car? Or does your situation only apply when you buy a used car directly from someone?  When I bought my new car in March, I completed virtually the entire transaction through e-mail. When I arrived at the dealership, they had the car washed and ready and I signed the papers and left.  Well, there's always going to be a salesman involved as they do the paperwork. How else are you going to get talked into buying the upgraded Premium Sport-Tec Floor Package with Optimum Carbide Antimicrobial Nanofibers for $400?  

The amount of times I had to mentally tell the guy "fuck off" while buying my car was absurd, especially after doing all the research I did.  I know exactly what I want when I walk in there, so when I try to buy the car and the guy tries the "well why don't you get this one instead" speech it's aggravating.  I actually had a salesman tell me "I didn't need Air Conditioning with the way the roof is designed, the air flows nicely while you drive."   In Texas?? Selling a car without AC here should get you a Singapore style caning.   This was actually in Florida, which is why I was dumbfounded.  Next time I buy a car in going to have USAA do it all. I have heard good things about their car-buying program. Not everyone can be a USAA member though.  &gt; Evolution is a real thing

Not in Texas, it isn't.  I think there might be an amendment in the state constitution stating as such. As a Texan, I find your comment both hilarious and sad... Probably because we have whackjobs ruining shit. Having lived in Houston for a year, the disparity between insane, state legislator and common sense local government blew my mind.

Texas isn't unique, just louder, in telling you back off their freedoms whilst also regulating various freedoms for no common sense (Gay rights, drug laws, transportation) etc. If you want to sell a competing product, you need permission from the incumbent sales people? 

Capitalism!!

Edit: yes yes I don't care, please do not reply the same thing Tesla should counter this decision by accusing the legislators of being communist since they won't let him sell his product. Take out ads in newspapers. Spread it on blogs and such. Make it a talking point in all interviews with Musk. 

My guess is Texans are very sensitive to being labelled as communists.  "Mr. Senator, how do you respond to the allegations that claim you are a communist?"

"Mam You and your audience know I've been a believer in capitalism since I was a boy. I fight to protect it in the senate every day." 

"Then sir why did you block direct Tesla sales? Isn't that defeating the point of capitalism?"

"Look my nay sayers are going to try and say a lot of things to rattle my jimmies but let me tell you this, dealerships are a huge job creator in our state and protect consumers. These direct sales are like Obama Care, we must repeal it to protect the country." Oh god, that's frighteningly accurate.   This is the Free Market at work.  You are *Free* to fuck over your competitors using purchased government officials.

edit: Sweet zombie Jebus, people.  How can you not see this isn't remotely serious and is in fact a dig at the system?  Have we really reached the point where even blatant sarcasm requires the /s tag?  Perhaps they should create a government program to supply sarcasm detectors to the needy. I caught your sarcasm and thought it was a great dig. It's like right to work.

You have the *right* to work with no benefits.

You have the *right* to work for substandard pay.

You have the *right* to be fired at any time and for any and/or no reason.

Freedom, baby. One of the benefits of our social media society is that it exposes the rampant ineptitude and incompetence of our leaders.  

I don't expect them to know everything--hell, I'm pretty smart and I don't know everything.  But I know enough to listen to the people who are experts on things I am not. Funny, her 10th highest contributor to her campaign is the Texas Automobile Dealers Association.  I wonder how much this is motivated by the car dealers, and how much by Texas thinking they're protecting oil interests. Most likely dealer's first, since I doubt they are thinking long term.  Definitely dealers, because this isn't the only state this is being pushed in. Michigan was another big one. My state, Missouri, is also being pushed to do the same thing. There is absolutely no good reason for these bans to take place. Car companies should not have to talk to dealers about selling their products first. Buying a car from a dealership is one of the worst purchasing experiences you will ever have to make. The argument has been made that the foundation of dealerships have been a proved, working method for consumers for decades - which is an absolutely crock of shit when you consider that there has not been any sort of real alternative, with the exception of buying privately from first parties, which is not the same thing, or the same business. Car dealers in Texas have a sweet deal, and they're rich enough to be politically powerful. Here's a map of all the states that allow and don't allow direct sells:

http://mojo-wordpress.s3.amazonaws.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/apple-map-3-19-15-1185x938-web.jpg I know this is the first line of reasoning that went through everyone's heads months ago when this first became an issue.

But I honestly still can't wrap my head around the fact that it could be illegal to simply sell someone a product.  

Even after reading all the legalese history behind automobile dealerships, there's just something profoundly wrong with it at its very core. Didn't the FTC *just* say that they can sell direct?  Yes but it's only advisory. No, the FTC published an open letter saying that they *should be allowed* to direct sell.  They mandated nothing. [This](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/blogs/competition-matters/2015/05/direct-consumer-auto-sales-its-not-just-about-tesla) is the letter from the FTC about direct-to-consumer sales. 

&gt;Our point: States should allow consumers to choose not only the cars they buy, but also how they buy them. Oh, the Ignorance of those we have elected! Who is stupider, the politicians, or we electors? It's us.  They have us pretty well figured out.  Their corporate sponsors/owners have them figured out and can use the dimmer ones to their advantage.  For example, cutting out competition. You see, its always between a giant douche and a turd sandwich  Well the tards my fellow Texans elected just banned local city governments from banning fracking. Banned from banning fracking. Why does Texas hate the free market?  Better question is why do they love big government  Everything's bigger in Texas. I don't think Tesla gives a shit about this. People wanting to buy a Tesla will do it in a neighbouring state and import it. No way, I was going to buy a Tesla but I can't be bothered to spend a few extra hours of my day to go to a neighboring state, so I'll just buy a Ford Taurus instead and drive that around for four years.
 Translated: It would have been wiser if Tesla didn't go into competition with the fat cats stuffing my pockets.  This is the very definition of crony capitalism: Companies using political power to protect their market share. As someone who lives in Texas, this isn't about electric vs. oil, it's about the insanely locked down dealership market here. They've paid to have these laws on the books and contribute heavily to local scumbags like this one mentioned here. They are always horrible and know that any kind of real competition has the potential to kill off their scams. Hence this.

Also, "Mr. Tesla". Fucking idiot doesn't even know what he's talking about, just what the dealers told him to say.  Texan here. In fact, a proud, conservative Texan who supports most of our differences from other states. Why aren't we allowing direct sales? Why protect car dealerships? I thought my state was supportive of fewer laws, more competition, and freedom. Supposedly. Now I'm pretty frustrated with this Senator. 

Quick Edit: Looked this senator up and dispelled my confusion. She's messed up. Dealerships were made important because manufacturers were creating unfair competition (not sure it was but hey). They were selling Chevys, Chevy was selling chevys, it was a problem. The dealerships needed a way to be protected from being undercut.

The key difference is this: Teslas are not sold in dealerships. There is no unfair competition for the same product. Tesla is not letting dealerships sell their cars because they want to control the quality of the sale and their product is so unique that dealerships can't do it. Not to mention the hissy fit mainstream manufacturers would pitch if they had to compete against Tesla. America:

Land of the fucking ridiculous business practices.

"You must talk to your competitors and pointless middlemen before we allow you to sell your product. By the way, this only applies to cars. Oh - by the way, it only applies to **your** cars." sounds like some oil companies and car dealership companies are paying this senator an exorbitant amount of money So, in order for me to open a business in the State of Texas, I must first sit down with the other business owners in my industry to get their permission?  What kind of bullshit is this? For a state where buying a Tesla is illegal, there sure are a lot of them around here. But but but but it was a Democrat that said that, reddit can't make fun of her.  Texas~ proving that the majority of law makers are still idiots. Elon should start going by Mr. Tesla. It would be awesome. What the hell is this bullshit? "You should have talked to the people I take bribes from first..." [deleted] You can tell it's a Democrat because they don't mention it. There is a such a disdain for dealerships here, that it's impossible to try and speak logically...but I'm going to try anyways.

Manufacturers, such as Honda, Toyota, GM, Ford, VW etc. don't want to sell directly to consumers.  It's too costly.  There's too much liability and it would be bad for business.  Manufacturers are EXACTLY that.  A manufacturer.  Every car the Honda manufactures is already sold.  To a dealer.  It doesn't matter if it's a bright green Accord with a pink interior.  It is not the manufacturer's responsibility to sell the car.  Sure Honda is going to have a national advertisement for the car, but it's ultimately Smithtown Honda that is going to bear the bulk of maintaining the car, advertising the car locally and paying interest on the car...and here's the most important part...losing $5,000 to sell said car, when all is said and done.

When Honda can manufacture 1,000,000 Accords and know that they are already sold before they are done being built, what is the point of taking over the responsibility of selling to the consumer?  

People love to negotiate on new cars.  You think I'm wrong?  Fine...pay sticker price then.  Oh, you're not going to?  Sounds like people who refuse to pay sticker are the ones who negotiate.  People say they don't like negotiating for multiple reasons (because they are bad at it, they are afraid they are going to make a mistake or the dealership they are dealing with, is a pain in the ass to deal with.)  Which brings me to my next point;  competition.

Competition is good.  Let's say you take away all your competition and if you want to buy a Honda, you go straight to Honda.  Honda says your trade in is worth $5,000?  You want more?  Sorry, don't buy a Honda then.  There is no "going to the other dealership" and trying to get $6,000.  Honda isn't going to "stretch" for you.  Here is the price for a new Accord.  There is no more negotiating.  The price is the price and if you don't like it, go buy a Ford. 

Let's say you do buy a Honda but the experience is a horrible one.  You're never going to buy from Smithtown Honda again!  Only problem is, it's not Smithtown Honda anymore...It's Honda of America.  There is no "other dealership".  If you have a bad experience with Honda selling to you directly, there is no more middle man to go above and beyond to keep your business.  You're S.O.L. and Honda is going to lose you as a customer forever. 

Don't believe me?  Google "Ford Auto Collection".  It was an experiment by Ford in the 90's.  They bought all the dealerships in a few towns and tried to sell directly to consumers.  It failed miserably.  Your trade in was worth $5,000 and it if you leave to go to another Ford dealer, it's worth $5,000 there as well.  Competition was dead and consumers were paying more for cars.

Not all dealerships are bad.  Not all dealerships are "out to get you".  It's okay for Guess to make $300 on a pair of $350 jeans, but if a dealership makes $500 on a $30,000 car, they are a bunch of thieves. 

If Tesla wants to expand, they are going to have to franchise.  Industry insiders say it and Musk himself has eluded to it.  The infrastructure is too big and too volatile at the consumer level to be ran otherwise.  It's very easy to sell directly to 2,000 people a month.  What happens when that number becomes 125,000?  What happens when your UIO (units in operation) starts running into the millions?  It's far easier for 100 dealers to keep track of 10,000 customers, rather than one company to keep track of 1,000,000 individuals.

This is probably a moot point in having typed all of this, but understand that consumers pay less because dealers compete.  It's the same thing as Walmart having a sale that Target doesn't.  


EDIT - I'm not saying that dealerships should be lobbying against Tesla.  I'm just trying to explain why "direct to consumer" car sales isn't as easy as "I should be able to buy a Honda right from the source". All the Redditors: those fucking Republicans, they don't know shit about scien-- oh.......... So a direct admission of corruption in government, yeah?  Proud to be a Texan, yet again. Can't wait for Tesla models to be sold on Amazon.com. This comes on the heels of Texas blocking cities from being able to ban fracking and simultaneously loosening regulations on oil and gas.  Did Amazon sit down with Wal-Mart, Borders Books, and Sears first?  Did Egghead/Newegg sit down with CompUSA, Circuit City, and Best Buy first? hah haha hahaha "Communist Free Market"

The US is looking more and more like communist Russia from a few decades ago. You've got legislation that would make communist Russia proud (your patriot act is a real winner). And your government is even better in spying on their own citizens then East Germany ever was. And East Germany was notorious for spying on its own people.

Yeah let the downvotes rain in!
 Why? You're right, we're fucked unless we get rid of these old dinosaurs in legislation. The system is corrupted beyond repair. I guess that when the neighborhood is controlled by a protection racket, it might be wise to "talk" with the thugs.   I don't know much about how cars are sold in USA, but can't you just go to another state and buy your car there? From the UK here, but how the fuck is stopping a car manufacturer selling its cars direct even a thing?  Car dealers are superfluous middleman that does nothing rape the consumer when they buy a car, and then again when the car needs repair or replacement parts.  There is no need for this middle man, and the fact that laws are needed in place to keep their business model afloat only proves that dealers are bad as everyone would have chosen NOT to deal with them if it were an option. So shit for brains stupid and uninformed they don't even know the name of the person they are talking about. To all the uninformed fellow redditors....

These laws exist all around the country. Texas is not just being backwards. Dealership franchise protectionism is a nationwide problem. It's not just Texas. "It would have been wiser if Mr. Tesla bribed(lobbied) to allow direct sales" Texas loves big government     Why should Tesla have to sit down with car dealers first if Tesla already has a way to sell to consumers? I do not understand why this is a thing.  https://www.blackoutcongress.org/detect.js

Area 51 has some sweet IPs It's where they keep the Aquinas Hub, didn't you know? How else are they going to spy on global communications? I'm surprised they don't have *more* /8 addresses. Slash 8's always make me feel wasteful and dirty, like someone bad got a hold of my network and gave it the bad touch. Hey Admiral, can you explain the /8 address thing? Everyone else has covered what they are, but the wasteful aspect of it is that its a metric fuck-ton of IP address space. 255 * 255 * 255 = 16,581,375 IP addresses. Apparently Area 51 has a need for 12 of these monsters (totaling 198,976,500 addresses) in a time when IPv4 is seriously reaching its limit.
  
Minor addition: Assuming no wasted space for routing and reserved space (not possible) there are a grand total of 4,228,250,625 IP addresses. So, area 51 accounts for almost 5% of the entire IPv4 address space in existance. It's a bit excessive. People, the "area 51" is a stupid joke. Those addresses belong to the US Govt/military (which have networks of many millions of devices).  

Here's a real list: http://www.iana.org/assignments/ipv4-address-space/ipv4-address-space.xhtml

If you want to be upset at someone, how about the amateur radio nerds who have a whole /8 that's completely unused by anyone (40.x.x.x).... Yah its a joke...I wasn't thinkg about it when first responding lol. You're right, its US Govt. address space. That being said, its still an insane number of addresses for what it is. A large portion of the DoD address space doesn't need to be there. It could mostly be on private NATed space as most of it isn't routed anyway. It's usually closed off into private network space that can't hit internet at all anyway. Hey Reidzen, If I understand it correctly, if they own the 26.0.0.0/8 IP Block, then that means that any address that starts with 26.x.x.x is theirs.

For /8, only the first number remains the same. For /16, First two remain the same, etc etc. /8 is a CIDR value that shows a whole subnet mask in one number. The number refers to how many bits are ones instead of zeros. /8 would have a subnet mask that is 255.0.0.0  It represents an enormous number of potential hosts, like multiple midsized ISPs worth.  Area 51, which is probably eentsy weentsy in network scale, consumes like 24 smallish ISPs worth of address space.  It's technical debt from the days of ARPANET, I'm sure, and it's immensely wasteful.  Especially in the context of the IP exhaustion we face today. The problem with all the NSA stuff going on is that I don't know anymore if you are just referencing Deus Ex or if something with that name actually exists/existed. Aquinas hub, eh except Area 51 IPs are commented out. What's up with that? It's a joke Ah. And you have the username I now feel I need. Use a Iowercase L instead of an I... it's aImost the same! I see someone else also made AOL screennames that were a pain in the ass.... Young me thought it was edgy and cool =D xXlll_VaniIIaXx &gt; xXlll_VaniIIaXx  
  
-=[ FaTe X 3.0 by MaGuS &amp; FuNGii ]=-  
-=[ NoW PunTiNG: xXlll_VaniIIaXx ]=- [deleted] Jesus, the US DOD alone has 12 /8 blocks?  No wonder we're running out of IPv4s.  I'd wonder about the utilization, but I don't think I want to get any more frustrated.

To put that in perspective, one /8 block has 16,777,216 addresses.  IPv4 has 4,294,967,296 addresses, including reserved addresses like 10.*.*.*.  One department of the US government is using up 4.7% of the IPv4 address space. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_assigned_/8_IPv4_address_blocks

It's just the military in general, but as someone mentioned, it's commented out, thus not included.

Oddly, the UK Ministry of Defense is in this list.

     var SIZE_BYTE = 8; // Prevent the annoying WP smiley faces from showing up

Hahahaha, they didn't want any " 8) " in the code A great way to teach them to appreciate VPNs and encryption. If there is one thing I have learned from working at a corporation...the amount of bureaucratic bullshit you have to jump through is insane. If I want a picture hung in my wall, I've to email a guy named roger. Roger emails Susan. Susan emails john, who emails his boss Sarah to get permission. The. A few weeks go by and she tells john who tells Susan who tells roger who tells me it is okay to hang a picture on the wall. Sweet now I can email maintenance to tell them it's cool buttttt they have to email their boss to go over proper picture hanging procedure. A week later they show up to hang a picture (month turn around). I can't imagine the willpower required to get everyone up and running with a Vpn. Not to mention the training required to get staff up and running with it.  They could implement it at the server level so no employee training is required.  IT sets it up and off you go. We have VPN set up on ddwrt on our smaller remote locations. No one has to do a damned thing. Direct access on clients running 7/8 enterprise who work in the field. Not a damned thing needed to be done by the computer illiterate.  Wait,  you can't afford a proper VPN appliance but you have Direct Access which requires enterprise licensing? You must not have to get approval for your spending. Doing a network right means supremely expensive. Doing a network for a small company means you've got to cut corners so you can survive. I'll trade them some appliances for Enterprise licenses. A 'proper appliance' is any one that works stably and can handle the load required of it. Yes but judging by how often Wikipedia calls out members of whatever government sector editing articles... if they could, or even if they knew how... they haven't yet.  His point is that even setting up the VPN will take forever to get an approval. Would still need to rotate IPs faster than activists can find them. This is why, at my last job, I proposed we add the HR folks into our IT ticket system.  I told them I could automate requests so certain subjects go to certain people, and they would have SLA escalation to managers.  It took a while, but after enough people complained their Office Admin/HR Requests were falling through the cracks, the managers wanted to know who was dropping the ball.  A week later I had them added into our system.  Managers identified the problem children, and they received adequate training to resolve the issues.  Nobody was butthurt, everyone was on board in the end.  I think initially people are afraid because they think they'll get fired.  But good managers realize it's an accountability tool, but also a good tool for training folks who need it.  

Amazing what a little accountability can do.   This presumes your HR department hasn't decided that their purpose for existence is simply to increase suffering.

(There's some weird thing where HR people tend to gauge their effectiveness by how much they can make the workers wish to die.) I'd be fine with HR if they didn't go out of their way to waste our time.  Like ours made all the employees watch this 2+ hour long fake news segment about harassment (anyone else seen the "Be Frank With Me" crap?).  All of which could've been boiled down to "Don't do stuff that could seem mean or sexual.  If someone else does, report it to HR."  And then there's all these "company policy refreshers" that get thrown at you once a month or so, where you'll have to read a bunch of crap that's not pertinent to your job at all and then take a quiz on it. Some of these could be mandated through state laws or insurance contracts. Wow. These are the sort of people who'd let the building burn down because no one filled out the paper work to call the fire department. Correction: We do the fire audits monthly... if the building burns down we do the paperwork afterwards, but it's a lot of paperwork so we try to avoid letting it get that far - source: Ama building operator Dude, just hang the picture up... What's the worst that could happen? Yeah way better to beg forgiveness than ask permission...
that goes for most aspects of a job.

Most of the promotions I've gotten in my career have stemmed from simply doing something or taking on a responsibility. If a product or service is needed, create it. It's true even for little things like hanging a picture. Everyone will just assume you have the authority to do what you are doing, and eventually, you do. As long as what you're doing has no negative impact on the company, you're fine. &gt; Everyone will just assume you have the authority to do what you are doing, and eventually, you do.

This got me laughing, but I'm sure you're correct. Yeah, he actually is.  At my previous job, I just decided to start coming in 15 minutes late every day.  I made it consistent.  No one questioned anything - they all just thought that was my schedule.  Then I started coming in 1 hour late and still no one said anything (nothing ever happens in that first hour anyway...it's a waste of time).  If anyone asked, other people in the office would just say "yeah, arcticblue comes in at 8:30" and people would just be like "oh, ok.  I'll come back then".  It was insane.  

Part of the reason I think I got away with it was because I automated the worst parts of my boss' job and just had the systems email him the results so he could just check over it.  He used to spend half of his day every day doing these tedious log rotations and backups of a bunch of network equipment and I spent 20 minutes writing some VBS scripts that ran automatically to help him out.  I could get away with murder after that.  I also automated most of my own job so I'd get to work an hour late, hang around for about 20 minutes checking on things and then take off to go eat breakfast, then I'd take like a 2 hour nap in my car during lunch.  Of course, if there was actual real work to be done, I would always make sure it got done, but day to day crap I had pretty much on autopilot.  I felt like I was living _Office Space_.  I did the least amount of work because I automated all the shit tasks and people just assumed I was the authority on all this other stuff so I'd go help them out and score brownie points with everyone.  I eventually quit because I was completely bored out of mind.  

I don't do this any more though.  I stand out too much at my current place being the only white guy and management is always looking for a reason to write me up so I play by the rules (white privilege, my ass).  And I have too much work that can't be automated and I do actually take pride in doing a good job.  Says the guy that came in late all the time and took 2 hour lunch naps. White privilege all over your ass!  Haha, there's a little more to the story.  The jobs were very different in very different environments.  One was contracting on a military base and the other is a traditional Japanese company.  Very different rules to play by. Holy shit, that's about as polar opposite as they come! I'm cognizant of the stereotypical Japanese office, so I can only imagine the pressure of being the only white dude . i bet you miss those naps though... I automated everything then wrote a few novels worth of web-serial because I was bored.

Work is a great writing environment, it just looks like work. This is especially true in technical fields where you already have some decision making authority, like computer science or engineering. Taking the initiative to accomplish your ultimate goal is kind of where you should be heading in your career development anyway.  Ever hear the phrase "at will employment"? In my experience asking things is a way easier way to get fired than doing things. Doing allows you to show off the results as you are justifying. Pretty easy to do if the action you did worked. If hanging a picture is a fireable offense then fuck working there. Took my team at least 6 months to get VPN access. We literally could not do our jobs without it. Didn't matter, we HAD to have a VP sign off and that turned into a shit show. That's a VPN in, we're talking about a VPN out.
It's one setting in the edge router.  
I.T. could fast track that in a day or two. Never underestimate the ability for a large corp to not do things. It probably requires multiple groups anyways since no single group controls their entire environment from start to finish. Possible some large companies aren't like it but where I am now, it's exactly this. How large?  We are a hair over 10k employees and it usually takes a day or less.  Once the VPN is initially setup, it's cake to manage. For us, a manager submits a ticket with the username and MAC of the machine(or we send helpdesk to find it) that needs access, we add the user to one of the VPN access groups, add their MAC to the ACL if it isn't already, then email them a link to vpn.ourcompany.com.  They open the link, login with their domain credentials, and all is done they are on a intranet from most places in the world. The only prerequisite is it being a company laptop with one of our images, or have the personal laptop added to the domain with our software package. All subcons and sales offices have P2P ASA routers, none can see each other, but all can see the servers they need to and we can see all of them, it takes about 3 days to get one of those setup and in the mail. We also have a central Terminal server, so if you need to get to another site you login to the VPN, Remote into the terminal server, then you can access any sites within your permissions. I can only dream it was that easy. I work for a significantly smaller companies but still large enough to just be stupid. We were a 1k employee company a year ago and were inhaled by a monster. It gave me warm fuzzies that many of the systems I had in place(VPN policy being one of them) were implemented by the big guys, and I actually got to keep my job(usually middle management are the first to go).  I also have a lot more resources under me now so it's much easier to do things right.  The old regime was an us vs. them mentality where I'm a provider.  The employees are my customers, if they aren't happy, I need to fix it. You can't make everyone happy, "what do you mean I can't watch youtube videos all day!!", but I do my best.  A lot of the guys they put under me were the archetypal IT persona, but I've been doing my best to help them see the light.  I remember about 2 weeks after I took the reigns, I knocked on an admin's door and opened it, he bellowed, "WHAT??? My door was closed, can't you see I'm busy!" Funny enough I was coming to talk to him about numerous complaints from users that he was am unruly tyrant of the computer thingies.  

Life is too short and stressful to be pissed off all the time, a good IT team is one that is rarely seen and when you do need them you don't have to cower in fear of the omnipotent IT gods.  Also as one of my IT motives, I prepare for the worst. I prefer to prepare for disaster than to sit back and wait to react to one, because shit happens. Until that VPN out somehow breaks some mission critical software that IT doesn't know exists and isn't documented anywhere...  would that be because it runs on decades old hardware using software from a company that went bust and the only guy that knew how it worked retired? Create your own company and have others go through a mile of bullshit to get your 3-second approval. Problem solved. Jesus, reminds of [this] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cGuT97v4pv0). if they're blocking Congress IP addresses you don't need a full VPN, a new proxy would do the trick. Any notable/high traffic websites? This is the big question. If they just put it on 10,000 squatter sites, who cares. &gt;icanhazcheeseburger.com    

the internet isnt fucking around this time. Oh noez congress can't see LOLcatz This is huge.  We should make a thread suggesting that reddit does a black out Change comes from within. What if the owners say no? Are we willing to say no back to these major corporate websites who won't take a stance with us? Or will we just shrug and say "shit well we tried", and go back to browsing dank memes? Perhaps we should be doing our own protestation blackouts.... Alright.   I've been sending naked pictures to senators and congressmen all morning.   Do you think they'll mind that I'm 13? Now report them for possession of child pornography.  Instructions unclear, dick stuck in congressman Ah,  role reversal, you're fucking them for once!  http://www.reddit.com/r/blackoutreddit/  
  
Here we go. I don't know shit about modding, so somebody tell me they want to run this thing and I'll make 'em a mod. Come on, Congress. All you have to do to pull this off is nothing. That's your thing I know you can do it this time if you put your mind to it. They're so good at doing nothing you'd think a bunch of 13y/o boys were in office. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lKxUfdv_U00 [I Found a familiar face!](http://imgur.com/knSqLq6) It still amazes me to see that picture, I remember when he posted it in the Something Awful gun section. I feel like I was there for some small part of internet history.  Theres a couple of threads on fark i remember that i feel the same way about. Nowadays every damn meme start on 4chan and gets spread on here and imgur and then gets run into the ground by tumb1er and shows up months later on your older relatives facebooks.  I say all 4chan memes are run to the ground the moment they leave 4chan. Fat Russell Brand? Looks like he was cutting his heroin with mayonnaise. Also Barney Fife, if you scroll down a bit. Where can I find a list of sites participating? I want to give them a strong reddit hug. I love this. What are the websites blocking Congressional access?  (Sorry if it's in the article; my crappy reddit mobile browser doesn't always render things right).   This seems almost like a spinoff of the "dick pic" jokes from [this episode of Last Week Tonight](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XEVlyP4_11M)  What he says around 9:35 that people want absolute freedom and absolute security at the same time, seems pretty true. I don't know if [this](http://i.imgur.com/SIxBcpM.jpg) guy really cares if people are looking at his private photos. All I care about is the fact that I can admire his body. He's the best looking ugly guy I've ever seen.  Hey! Look at all those citizens speaking out for freedom. Except for that one guy... with the chocolate syrup and whip cream nipples. That guy's just looking to party. I want freedom to party. I don't wanna ask permission from the government to drink two liters of beer, jump naked into the pool, and puke off the deck.  Beastie Boys for office!  the official response by congress was:

"we already got all those photos from your phones and mail, don't you have anything new?" What the hell does this headline mean  We're synergizing our paradigm shift on a pivot so that we can make the world a better place. Why the fuck isn't Reddit doing this? Why isn't the CEO pushing for it right now, instead of spouting rhetoric about banning a few trolls to make it into more of a safe space? Does anyone else remember when Reddit was an instrumental player in creating the Internet blackout against SOPA? Remember when we could use /r/reddit.com to plan rallies and try to start grassroots campaigns? Our corporate masters weren't to happy about that, so they changed it. On Reddit and 4chan now, the top level people in charge have their own interests and personal image placed ahead of the site's ideals. The top level people cashed out and are vacationing on the beach. Media corps own reddit and half chan now. God bless the United Cuck of Fullchan. At least for now. \&gt; Implying Hotwheels is a cuck Hold up. Isn't that up to us? I mean, the CEO of Reddit is not gonna ban you for starting a campaign. You want to rally around a cause? Go get some other people and fucking do it, man. Just because Reddit is under new management doesn't mean we've suddenly lost all our power. Yeah, we can't put code in the site, but that doesn't mean you can't start grassroot campaigns and whatnot. I say go for it if you feel strongly. &gt;I mean, the CEO of Reddit is not gonna ban you for starting a campaign.

Reddit literally banned all email campaigns relating to GamerGate on /r/kotakuinaction.

They definitely can and will. &gt; I mean, the CEO of Reddit is not gonna ban you for starting a campaign.

I dunno, she might. Ellen Pao has that batshit crazy air to her. That's [Chairman Pao](https://i.imgur.com/WmDOX1u.jpg) to you pleb! [Chairman Pao](http://i.imgur.com/LvydHWF.jpg) Yeah, she seems like she would squash users if it was to her benefit. Reddit banned campaigns that contain the e-mail addresses of individual people, even if that person was the contact listed for the company as their HR/PR/media relations person.

 Many potential reasons could be contributing:

1. It's not as popular. Searching "blackout congress" in google news yields one actual link talking about it. In Finnish.
2. reddit had a more direct stake in SOPA.
3. Redirecting to a bunch of naked people is not their style.
4. Specifically only redirecting congress doesn't gain a lot of attention. I don't believe reddit ever really does anything as an entity that doesn't have some PR angle to it too. That includes the SOPA blackout. They can make a post about how they're doing it on their own site, there will be a circlejerk in the thread for the next 18 hours, a few clickbait rags will write about it, and that's basically it.
5. They, like almost every single person ITT were unaware that this was happening. See point #1 about it not being popular enough. Maybe they would have taken part if they were aware of it. But seeing as how it only has 2 days to take off at this point in time, I doubt they will. They would probably even be shat on in the comments for being too late if they did.

I also don't think anything has changed or that you can point to their lack of involvement here as an indicator of change. Just because this is one form of internet activism that you support and you happen to be aware of today doesn't obligate them to take part. There have probably been dozens of little campaigns like this over the years before and after the SOPA blackout that you were unaware of that reddit also did not take part in.

EDIT: And the "10,000 websites" thing mentioned in the title isn't supported anywhere. There have been about 200 people who tweeted about this. [1500 tweets](http://topsy.com/analytics?q1=%23ifeelnaked%20&amp;via=Topsy) over the last month. One guy, who has been tweeting hundreds of random pictures of people who may or may not be aware he's using their pictures, is responsible for most of those pictures you see on the front page. A google search for "10,000 websites blackout congress" yields blackoutcongress' as hit #1 with their unsubstantiated claim that "thousands of web sites have blocked your access" and this thread as hit #2. The other hits think I was searching for the SOPA blackout which did have &gt;10,000 participants. If they haven't motivated over 10,000 tweets, how many people do you think they've motivated to make alterations to their websites? This place is not the same as it was a few years ago. Its simply way more mainstream. That said, we rallied pretty well for net neutrality recently, and against comcast/twc. Considering there are kids at my high school who frequent reddit and talk about gonewild like its some kind of an inside joke, yeah its pretty mainstream. You're a kid at your school. well, unless he's a teacher or some other kind of staff. i mean, his name is 1337m00nm4n. is 1337 something that even survived the late 90s/early 2000s? I remember. Unfortunately, reddit has been sabotaged. Some alternatives to Reddit, for those that want some more horizons to explore:

http://snapzu.com/t/technology

https://hubski.com/tag?id=technology

http://voat.co/v/tech

https://empeopled.com/t/technology

https://news.ycombinator.com
 &gt;sabotaged 

Don't know enough about reddit to be aware of such a possibility. How did it happen? Look at the current CEO's history. I fear saying too much will get me shadow banned Why the fuck are people posting pictures of their naked children? Ten years ago it was "don't even give people your first name on the internet because they might be super hacker pedophiles who will track you down and rape you" and now it's "nekkid pics of my kids on the internet LOL". I noticed that too, felt pretty awkward.  Just checked and it looks like that picture was taken down.  Kinda sounds like somebody wants people to be against this protest. &gt; Ten years ago it was "don't even give people your first name on the internet because they might be super hacker pedophiles who will track you down and rape you"

In all honesty, that's age. 

When you're 13 and just getting into the internet, you believe that there's someone out there willing to hack you and track you down. You think downloading some CoD script makes you a cool uber haxor. As you grow up, you grow out of that and see how dumb it was.  More the opposite. It's the younger people who want to post evey single thing they do on Facebook and Twitter and don't see a problem with that. Older people tend to think "hey it's not a good idea to put everything on the Internet, you don't know who will see it". Older people don't trust whatever privacy settings are available and just assume anything they post on the Internet will be seen by everyone.

Take a look at the whole NSA controversy. You might think older people "don't get it" or they're "sheeple" who value security over privacy. But in actual fact, older people never trusted anything they put online, they never trusted their smartphone. They assumed all along that there were people capable of seeing what they do. So when the Snowden leaks happened you end up with two groups of people. The young people that thought their data was safe and were shocked by they revelation and thing Snowden is a hero, and older people that always knew that all this data was available to the government all along and think Snowden is a traitor for handing that data over to a third party.

Which group of people think the NSA leaks were shocking and which group of people didn't care? That's right, it was young people that thought their online data was private and older people that always knew it wasn't. What about those of us who were old enough to believe that our data was not secure and easily intercepted (and thus figured it was already compromised), but who also think Snowden did a great thing by bringing the surveillance state out into the open? I think that kid had a diaper on. Hippies. [This site makes it incredibly easy to call your representative.](http://lobbyism.io/tools/call)

(I know cause I made it) Why is the white house not on this list? WTF, they censored the one that actually had boobs! I think the censored ones are submitted that way, they just add what they receive If you're talking about the same one I'm thinking of, that's one of Brie Larson's leaked nudes. Pretty sure she didn't upload that herself. What's the point of censoring boobs?  What kind of shitty civil disobedience is this if there are no uncensored boobs?! WE WANT BOOBS! Because Congress would enjoy them.  Too naked? America's archaic tradition of suppressing all forms of sexuality, but violence is cool. They also censored a butt, but it just looks like somebody doesn't have a butt crack, and it's a little disturbing. Won't they be able to bypass this in a matter of second if they have a competent sysadmin? Yes, they just need to filter out that url that contains the script. This is stupid. The filtering need to be done on the server side to have any effect other than adding five minutes to the work load of they sys admins who probably were aware of this protest before most of us. No, it's not stupid. Is a form of protest. One that doesn't really harm anyone but that makes a firm point. Should just real time compile a list of all known NSA / us government affiliates and block them via methods like this permanently, and update the list.

I don't want them looking at my stuff even if they don't pass the patriot act again, or pass something new. They're a known bad player who intentionally infects computers and installs backdoors, and it would be best practice in data security to keep any government group from accessing any computer you own because they have a clear pattern of intentionally infecting computers and computer networks to breech their security. Should redirect to the naked photos of NSA AGENTS. This is pointless. 

How many of these people will just vote for Hillary or JEB in 18 months?

Congress doesn't care that .000000000000000001% of websites aren't directly accessible.  Small websites, they don't care. If Wikipedia joins in, they will. Don't forget the porn sites.  ....Don't most people on porn sites feel naked? somebody page pornhub Paging /u/katie_pornhub! But we already redirect to naked people! [...](http://www.reactiongifs.com/r/abr.gif) Ya, then they can't edit out the bad stuff from their wikipedia pages Honestly, if giving up the mass surveillance means there's a 0,1 % bigger chance of me getting murdered, it's a chance I'm willing to take. 
Media is scaring everyone into agreeing to whatever the government wants. 
Terrorism is not a real everyday threat (not saying it's not a problem), but getting shot by the police is far more likely to happen. It is a lot easier to control a population filled with fear than one without.  Some of those pics I'd pay for the full version.  Others, well, not so much. If pornsites, wikipedia, and travel agencies are able to get in on this then Congress will definitely do something. Lol I love this, we should know everything about the government, not the other way around So all they do is need to disable JS in their browser and this is practically moot? Implying members of congress are smart enough to disable JS, let alone legislate a country. They argued against SSL... Do you honestly think, knowing that, they are smart enough to disabled javascript? They did WHAT? When? Why?
 Was about a year or two ago I think. The reason was bullshit literally. They essentially had no understanding of it or what it did so they made a ruling on it for all of their websites. Thus why most of them are not SSL protected. Yep, that's correct It's a series of tubes. [this one](https://images.ifeelnaked.org/photos/596800942483320832.png) is really creepy I am sure Congress will use this to create "net neutrality" which will really just mean the FCC can regulate anything on the internet as a matter of "fairness."

Or Congress could just start using Hola to get around it.   &gt; Or Congress could just start using Hola to get around it. 

Half of congress can barely use email, they don't understand the concept of a VPN. Their aides do.  Yeah, well being an "aide" doesn't always translate to "being helpful." Sometimes you just want to be close enough to loot the trainwreck. ~~Sometimes you just want to be close enough to loot the trainwreck.~~ Sometimes you want to be close enough to strangle some of them.  Dont even need a vpn, just block that script. You mentioned Hola, and I want to point out to potential and current users that other Hola users are accessing the Internet through you.  Not just other Hola users. The company behind it started selling those proxy services that they get for free. I suspect that IT security departments around the world that tolerated Hola so far will come down with an iron fist in the next days to wipe them from their networks. Thank you for pointing this out. Uninstalled... Websites aren't carriers. Even if the FCC went so far as to classify ISPs as common carriers it would have no more authority to regulate websites than it does words in a telephone conversation. That naked thing is fucking stupid. Way to take a serious constitutional and criminal violation issue and make it into some asinine hashtag challenge. noscript &gt; forbid blackoutcongress.org Only paranoid fuckers like us would ever bother with that shit. It's substantially inconvenient even if you sorta know what you're doing, which congress sure as fuck does not. \#ifeelnaked

STOP NSA ASS SURVEILLANCE.

http://i.imgur.com/G9w0hku.png

 This is totally going to do the trick. I'm sure they have no way to obfuscate their IP's... Also, it's very likely that government policy will be dictated by naked people. /s Everyone on this thread complaining that this is stupid and pointless because Congress can just use a VPN or block the script to get around it -


The point isn't to actually restrict their access. The point is to protest in such a way that they might notice. If they try to access a site running the script, this message will show up, meaning that the more sites that do this the higher the likelihood of a given Congressperson actually reading it. Is this thing reviewed? Someone took a picture of their asshole and it showed up on blackoutcongress.org And? He doesn't like brown eyes. Someone is going to post CP and this isn't going to end well. As the web developer I can confirm that:
- there are no asshole shots
- everything is moderated before it appears on the page.
I can also confirm that we've had to sort through and delete a lot of really fucked up shit. Stuff you wouldn't believe. Stuff that would scar your mind. Someone probably posted the link on 4chan. Like this?

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lzAuXuxD0Oo I assume they are just searching for the tag and displaying any and all results. Why should these things be reviewed and censored when they are collecting everything anyway. If they can't take a balloon knot or two, they should stop collecting all this stuff. The level of deceit and half truths that were leveled to get it enacted... Does anyone really believe that a public vote will roll it all back?

I wish I did, but I don't. Except I don't know many congressmen that use computers themselves. I'll bet you know a lot of Congressmen. I'll bet every congressman.  but their staffers sure do. Came for the comments. Whole thread is TL;DR. I used to work as a congressional intern. This would have sucked, since most of the people actually doing research and working on policy in the congressional office are the staffers, and they'd really be the only ones affected. I don't doubt the Congressional computers are already pretty highly encrypted and probably use a VPN anyways. this is a really creative and potentially effective approach to really make them care. google should participate. Of course, this won't affect actual members of congress, it'll only affect the people who actually know how to use the internet - interns and staffers. I am confused... Why are we punishing them for doing something right and letting it sunset? The point of this is that Congress led us into this false dichotomy of either renewing the act or passing the American freedom act which is even worse. That is not a sunset it's being made to choose with a gun to our heads   If you're worried about using foreign javascript or things like noscript blocking this approach, you could always whip up an .htaccess file that achieves the same effect (without the external call, so faster). The following should do the job:

    RewriteEngine On

    RewriteCond %{REMOTE_ADDR} ^(143\.228|143\.231|137\.18|156\.33|149\.101|65\.165\.132|204\.248\.24|12\.185\.56\.[0-7]|12\.147\.170\.(14[4-9]|15[0-9])|74\.119\.(12[8-9]|13[0-1])\.[0-9]{1,3}|216\.81\.(8[0-9]|9[0-5])\.[0-9]{1,3})
    RewriteRule ^ http://blackoutcongress.org? [L,NC,R=302]

I didn't include the "Area 51" address ranges, only the original, uncommented sections at the top for Congress, etc.  Is it legal to list the private IP address of every congress member, their families and relatives and add them to the blacklist? A bigger problem may be it being impractical. IP addresses arent private, same as street address. I put a piece of Scotch tape over the webcam on my laptop and sharpied over it. I feel like a crazy guy with a tinfoil hat. now, if only we could get this level of organisation to rail against lobbyists in Washington. Maybe we should have a kickstarter for lobbyists. We give money to somebody based on their platform + influence and they go and bribe our representatives on our behalf.  Almost like voting, but more economical. Too Bad McConnell doesn't internet. I wonder how many interns are going to get fired for browsing porn on the job. What sites? Nothing that adblocking, a proxy, and effectively infinite depth pockets couldn't solve.

 Most of those people don't look all that naked or indignant. I feel cheated :/ was hoping for porn
 [deleted] This is just Netflix vs cable &amp; Hollywood all over again.
 Is that over with now? Well, Netflix did end up paying extra which proves that comcast is using its monopoly power. The new Net neutrality rules will help if they can be enforced. Those rules will probably also lead to more competition in the ISP space at which point the big incumbents will have less illegal leverage. good thing in europe they would get fined to death. antitrust in europe. . no way. even google gets fined for using its power.  but not everybody gets netflix :'( ISP competition is heavily inhibited by laws Comcast, AT&amp;T, and Verizon helped pass in many states which make it nearly impossible to start a publicly owned ISP. For example, in Virginia, any publicly owned ISP has to pay back its infrastructure costs in the first year (which is inherently impossible) or it has to be shut down. [Read up on all the BS here](http://www.muninetworks.org/content/level-playing-field-0). the same infrastructure costs that we gave 2 billion in tax breaks to the major ISPS so they could build theirs? Not really, Netflix had to shift towards more of their own programming as fewer companies are letting them buy their content. And netflix's content is, in general, better than most of the rest.  Agreed. It sucks that they have to go on random "cleanses" of old shows they can't come to licensing terms with, but if more shows like Daredevil come out of it then I'm fine with that. Just started this series. Good stuff. Just finished it tonight! Amazing! Is all of it out or will there be more seasons? More to come!  Not only will you get a new season of Daredevil next year, you're on track for at least one new Marvel Netflix show this year (AKA Jessica Jones, which will also include Luke Cage) and possibly a second (Iron Fist, which is still listed as a 2015 release although no date has been set). 

Next year you will get at least S2 of Daredevil and Luke Cage's headlining series, and sometime (probably 2017), all four named heroes will join together in an Avengers-like team-up series called "Defenders," who are sort of the street-level heroes that support the Avengers. 

If Marvel and Netflix can continue the quality level set by Daredevil, I might actually be more excited for the Netflix series than I am for the movies, which seem to be generally following a trend of getting better with each iteration. Bloodline. Watch it people. I've heard it begins slowly, can you give me some opinions on why I should commit(Seriously, I love TV and need something new) Because you love TV and need something new sounds like good enough reason to me. A large part of that is due to the creative freedom afforded by not having to abide by broadcast decency rules. 
 You could make that argument for HBO, showtime and cinimax for the past 20 years. While they have traditionally had good content I wouldn't say it is on par with recent HBO shows (GoT silicon valley etc..) Or Netflix originals. No I think the reason that Netflix orginal content is so much better than traditional TV is because the writers/cast/story can remain consistent throughout the series. The writers/directors know the show can be watched in order and they don't have to worry about commercial breaks. Netflix also has the advantage on getting the whole season written before the first episode airs so if something needs to change it can change. 

Tdlr: There are many obstacles to great story telling, decency restrictions is one of them. But IMHO it's not the one in play here. HBO definitely had great programs before now. The Sopranos, The Wire, Tales from the Crypt, Deadwood, Rome, and Carnivale were all great shows. Dont forget Curb!

And Entourage! Another problem is even if such practices by the big companies are deemed illegal, they just throw money at it. I wonder how serious their problems would actually be if they stopped throwing money at stuff. Throw money at me!  Get a government contract If the car industry is any example, the government will just throw money at the problem for them. They make 5 billion and get fined 5 million. Yeah that'll teach 'em! 