Not only that, but many of them also included a cup or some other type of dish in the bag.  Buying a full set of dishes was quite expensive, but those companies could by them cheaply in bulk and throw one piece in each bag as an incentive to buy their brand. That was also something used to get people to go to movie theaters. It's called "Depression Glass". If you saw the uranium glassware posts from a while ago, a lot of those were most likely depression glass. The impact of the movie theater in the early-mid 1900's is actually pretty fascinating. How does that make them go to the movies?  Because TV didn't exist, radios weren't available in your pocket, and Newspapers were seen 2 times a day, if that, the theaters would show News and Media clips before the show. So you saw a movie, you got caught up on news, maybe heard some new music or whatever, and got some free plates. All for maybe a quarter. [About $2.95 today](http://www.usinflationcalculator.com/). Movies sure have gotten expensive.

Edit: If you're going to reply with your pet theory for why movies have become more expensive, please provide sources or a comprehensive explanation. Bro movies still cost $3 in like 1995... It's only been the last 10 years or so that it's gotten outrageous at like $10-$15... In case you didn't notice, 1995 was 20 years ago. I think the point was that 20 years ago is far more recent than 100, so it's not the usual inflation related increase. I do miss going to see summertime blockbusters for $4.95 as a teen.  The theater near me froze their pricing at that level for about a year (edit : maybe two? memory foggy) in the 90's.  It was tremendous.   Money left over for snacks and some arcade games!   Notably, The Addams Family pinball.  Which I now own.  At least I can buy nostalgia sometimes.   Also notable, the price of that 20+ year old pinball machine is now more than it cost when it was sold new in box. Living in a post-USSR country has it's benefits. Tickets for IMAX 3d blockbusters cost about 6$ for a grown up and around 3$ for a kid. Pretty neat. neat Yeah, I'll take a kick of depression right in the ribs with that one, thanks. Adjusting for inflation, the greatest rise was between the late 50's and mid-70's. 

[Graph](http://cdn.theatlantic.com/static/mt/assets/business/Screen%20Shot%202012-01-02%20at%2010.26.25%20PM.png), [Article](http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2012/01/why-do-all-movie-tickets-cost-the-same/250762/), [More recent data](http://www.boxofficemojo.com/about/adjuster.htm) This only goes up to 2001 though #WHAT THE FUCK WHAT HAPPENED??

 Bro, they did not cost $3 in 1995.  At least none of the ones i went too did. Depends on where you lived. They cost 5.50 before 8PM when I was growing up.

Right now they're 9.50 before noon. There are still places you can go see movies for $2 if you don't have to see it on release date. Usually 3 months after. Considering movies have exploded in production cost on the order of dozens to hundreds of times, I don't think it's that surprising. &gt; exploded in production cost

I think a lot of that is [hollywood accounting](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hollywood_accounting) movies are using more computers to make effects or create environments and movies cost more than ever to make.

Granted I'm not saying computer work is cheap but it's cheaper then building entire set pieces by hand and creating physically everything that is filmed. Then hiring in stunt teams for each stunt sequence and make up artists to do some crazy stuff that computers do.  Actually it's cost about the same, really. Usually people choose cgi because impractical or entirely impossible, not to save cost. This misconception is really widespread unfortunately. People often underestimated the man hour needed to make those cgi effect. Agreed. If one took a single class in 3D modelling it would make one's jaw drop the next time one watches a transformers movie. To be fair, it's not just the modeling that's hard. Animation is crazy hard, whether it be 2D or 3D. One minuscule screw up can make movement look completely unnatural and take viewers out of the moment. But... but how does that have anything to do with the glasses? "Get a free souvenir glass when you see our film!"

Marketing freebie. People love them. 

Reminds me of novelty tie-in cups at 7-11 or when McDonald's does their novelty glasses with purchase of a big mac or whatever. Oh yeah. It totally did used to be a free gift with a meal purchase. I haven't seen one of those as a giveaway in years. Now you can buy whatever souvenir merchandize for like 5-10$.  Yes, and they also used similar products at state fairs as prizes (as opposed to cheap stuffed animals).  I'm a bit of a collector in that department.  Also see "Indiana Glass."

They brought back a similar concept in the 70s-80s when I was a kid...at the grocery store, each week you could get a new Corelle-like place setting for a few bucks, or the next volume in the Funk and Wagnalls encyclopedia. Welch's jam does something similar too. They have jam with cartoon characters on the glass that you can wash out and use as a glass when it's empty Yes. I haven't seen those in years, so I don't think they still do this, but I remember drinking out of those jelly glasses at my grandparents house when I was a kid. jesus, funk &amp; wagnalls.  Anytime we had a random question when we were kids my dad would say "look it up in your funk &amp; wagnalls"  we didnt know what the fuck that meant til we were older This was extremely common among grocery store chains through the mid 80s. You could save up your receipts in exchange for a set of dishes. Gas stations also used to give out sets of glassware. As did McDonalds. My family was not poor when we were growing up, but my parents still collected something like 20 glasses from Mobil, which were the primary everyday glasses we used. Flashback! I remember those glasses! When was it? 1960ish something? 90s here in  NZ 60s equivalent.  I remember jelly glasses. There were certain items sold in glass with a plain lip, that turned into very durable glassware when empty. I don't see that these days. In the UK there is a size of Nutella that comes in re-usable glassware perfect as a whisky tumbler [this one](http://ecx.images-amazon.com/images/I/21BMx-9UG0L.jpg)?

A Nutella glass where you can actually get everything out using just a knife? Madness! I specifically buy a generic brand of Nutella here in Aus (called Nutino) because of this. It has a plain lip and a rubber cap. I have 4 of these small glasses so far! [Found a pic!](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/proxy/9Ef9XH14U9eld9Ot9vte1s_K1t5g263CiD8j38S-45MOOoaXhlj0a7awBpw0qL2BqK4bHceXV8HeasYExNN_tXSkRwF3niE9HGAO4g=w461-h319-nc) http://media.toysblog.it/P/Pea/Peanuts.jpg

Nutella does that too in Italy, thank god :D I remember something like that in the very early 90s. United Grocery in the Midwest.  This is how I got my collection of souvenir plastic beer cups from the ballpark That triggered a memory. I was very young, and there was something that my mother used to buy on a regular basis - maybe it was oatmeal? It had a cup or glass of some kind that came in it, and I would beg to get the cup out. My googlefu is failing me. It was some sort of a powdery / grainy product.  It was Crystal Wedding Oats. I was a die hard collector of these cups as a child as well!  Cream of wheat maybe?   My mom told me something like this. Apparently, the laundry soap used to come with silver spoons...? So, her grandma would only buy that one brand of laundry soap and had a nice set of silver spoons. I'm pretty sure this was in America, but maybe Germany. Rice companies used to do something similar. And Tang used to give you popsicle molds.  Ninja turtle cereal did the same. I had them all except Michaelangelo. And like 3 donnatellos. Wack ass don. [Some of the patterns they started using](http://imgur.com/a/wyVg2) They really got creative. This is incredible. It really blows my mind sometimes when things like this come up on here and I am reminded that large swaths of the country were once this poor and skilled that making clothes for your kids out of flour sacks was just life. For my grandparents and great-grandparents. It's these bits of history that really makes me appreciate where my family came from. pretty sure my grandma made all of her own clothing except stuff like shoes. she died in 1989. It still happens today. I remember these paper stencils my mother used to sew my sister's dresses back in the 80's. Anyone with a sewing machine can make quality clothing fairly easily. Unfortunately, fabric has gotten so expensive it no longer saves money to make your own clothing. Fabric has always been expensive. 

The issue is that it can now be manufactured, AND turned into clothing, for pennies on the dollar in 3rd world countries.  The difference is a seamstress can tailor each item of clothing to fit her body perfectly.  This is one reason why everyone seemed to be better dressed back then.   It is NOT easy to sew your own clothing. Especially clothing that looks decent enough for an adult to wear on the street. The truth is that your mom was a skilled seamstress and probably had been practicing for years.  Easily? I'm not so sure. My mother-in-law used to sew clothes for her kids and I've only seen pictures but... damn, those were ugly. 25 years later, my wife still resents her because she was made fun of in school because of those clothes. Its kind of weird that today, the fashion industry does things like this all the time (make clothes out of unexpected materials), but it's for the exact opposite reasons. And I thought I was talented for tying my own shoes.  But I wipe my own ass! I know Frankenstein. I know.  He is a scientist  "Knowledge is knowing Frankenstein was the scientist. Wisdom is knowing Frankenstein was the monster." Fuck whoever downvoted you. This is a brilliant quote. Who did it come from?  Knowledge is knowing how to use Google, wisdom is finding a reliable source.

 Knowledge is knowing how to start the train, wisdom is being the caboose. It reminds me of the kind of shit you see on paper towels. It's always the most random shit. "Okay guys what have we got this week, Johnson?"

"Well sir, James here has suggested bananas floating endlessly in a sea of blue dots. I'd like to move that we make the dots yellow to further compliment the bananas."

"Motion denied, Johnson, it is becoming clear you do not quite understand the precise art of coming up with random shit" Unless the dots were telling the bananas how pretty they were, the word is complement  Quilts too.  My grandma had a few around the house when I was a kid. [deleted] My mom made me a blanket with the bunny fabric. She told me it was old but I didn't know it was that old!  Yeah that one looked familiar to me too! But maybe they just continued the design somewhere else? I feel like she would have mentioned if she made it out of a flour sack. A lot of inexpensive "calico" fabric today--intended mostly for quilting--is inspired by the old flour sacks.  However, I've made a lot of baby clothes and nightdresses out of it.  Cheap, colorful, infinite variety, and softens nicely after washing. Holy crap! That was the fabric on my little pillow case when i was a kid. I guess my grandma must have saved it, cuz i was born in '81. That was my favorite pillow ever! I still miss the damn thing. I think my parents got rid of it to break my addiction to it. I was in high school and still sleeping with it when it "disappeared." Welp, now I know what the fabric is, I guess I'll have to track some down and make a new pillow case.  I have one too! I don't! Even includes instructions on how to wash out the branding. I assumed by ink they meant the branding stamps etc that you see in red, not the actual print. That was my interpretation to. I know the brand my grandma used to buy had a paper label instead of inked brand stamps. The label was stuck on with clag glue, and you could just wet it and peel it off. then you would scrunch the wet label up into a tight ball and put it into a mold to make "paper brick" that could be used in the range instead of coal. Wow if we used this philosophy we could solve the garbage problem.

Edit: yikes guys I meant packaging having other practical uses not just burning everything we throw out. Plus imagine all the new stars we'd have! That doesn't sound right, but I don't know enough about stars to dispute it. ; ) Which is the real kicker to be honest. They wanted to offer something great, but still keep people who might not want it happy. I can't think of a single company with that kind of customer loyalty today.  It's pretty much the exact opposite of the "this will break in a month, fuck you" business model of today. I'm pretty sure their reasoning behind flowered cloth was so people would pick their flour over competitors that did not have flowered cloth. Capitalism hasn't changed one bit. Remember Standard Oil? But there are instructions on how to remove the brand from the cloth, rather than forcing people to be walking advertisements for them. That's what this comment chain is about.

Today we've managed to convince people that walking around with a giant logo covering your body is a feature. This.
Never understood why people pay money to wear a company's advertisement.  Companies should pay ME if they want me to be a walking billboard for them. Back in the late 70s, early 80s they used to give out free T-shirts of nice quality, with logos on it.  At some point it became cool to wear these logos and we now pay $19.99 for the privilege of free advertising and wearing inferior quality items.

Dr. Pepper was my favorite and I got 2-3 free shirts at events (fairs, car races), plus some Mountain Dew shirts True, but people have always used clothing to show off their class or wealth. In the past it was royals wearing purple because the dye was so costly, or later it was people wearing silk or fur.  Its a weirdly middle class thing. Its about being *able* to purchase a branded item. Amusingly in luxury clothing brands, its about making the logo as unassuming as possible.  I agree but how about those Louis Vuitton bags which are just the logo all over? That counts as luxury clothing too, right? Uh... Not exactly.

A Louis Vouitton purse has a relatively high price tag, but under certain points of view, it's considered a [new-money](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nouveau_riche) product.

Just like Rolex, it's expensive, but by wearers (and makers) of watches such as [Patek Phillipe](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patek_Philippe_%26_Co.), [A. Lange &amp; Shne](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A._Lange_%26_S%C3%B6hne) or [Vacheron Constantin](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vacheron_Constantin), it's considered a mass-product.

I once had a meeting for a branding consultant and he told me exactly about the case on these two brands.


And basically, luxury has changed in these last years, it became something much more centered around exclusivity, limited editions and reservations, than just price tags.



Think about this: People use clothes to create a [semiotic](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semiotics) speech. That which anyone wears will most likely tell us what that person might want us to notice about them; If they like rock, or reggae, if they work out ant want to show it, if they are up to date with fashion... Etc. It sometimes even shows us what they don't want to know, like if they are insecure of their height for example.


So we can use that information to get to the point that people most likely will want to show whether they have money or not. That's where Louis Vuitton comes in. It serves the exact purpose of showing other people that that person can afford to spend a relatively high amount of money on an accessory. It fills that purpose by being easily recognisable by most people on any social class.


So, about luxury becoming about exclusivity, as I said before.. That's pretty much it: In this case the semiotic discourse is centered around power, since everyone already knows that the subject in question already has the money to acquire pretty much any luxury. That's where exclusivity comes in, that's where [Paying 150k on a purse and waiting 6 years to get it comes in](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Birkin_bag#Demand) .


The concept of luxury, with the rise of wealth all around the world, has been reinvented in these last 20 years. 


Also, if you think about Louis Vuitton again, 1000 bucks is not something extraordinary, if you live in a first world country and are middle-class, you most likely already possess the acquisitive power (with a bit of effort) to get one of these.

Edit: Clarity https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/originals/f2/6d/c8/f26dc82036659d50cd9e0541c26e800c.jpg
Reminds me of this.  The business model we have now is "this lasts half as long but costs a third as much." Well the flour industry doesn't really have much to set it apart from other brands. They didn't do this for the people so much as they wanted you to buy THEIR flour and not someone else's. Granted it's a win-win, and perfectly laudable, but the naivete being exhibited here by some people is breathtaking. It wasn't for humanitarian reasons, it was *differentiation*. That doesn't mean it was wrong because the motivation was profit. Hell, they probably felt great about it and it made some poor people feel better. It's all good. And it just goes to show that profit and philanthropy need not be mutually exclusive. But your argument conflicts with our false dichotomies! I can just imagine all the poor kids wearing the mixed clock tower / singing duck t-shirt.  All the cool slightly less poor kids would have their one pattern shirts acting all tough. That's lovely. They even used things that kids might be interested in like guns and bunnies and tea cups. How thoughtful.  The guns and targets are incredible! And the little chefs look like fat Benders.  My great grandma had a blanket made with that bunny fabric. I loved that blanket when I was a kid. I want to learn to sew, and then I want to track these down and make cute dresses.  If anyone finds a cheap source let me know! I sew and quilt. I wanted to buy some to make a few quilts from like my gran did but they are hard to find and so expensive.  You can have these patterns recreated at Spoon Flower. Much easier than tracking down actual flour sacks.  At this point a flower print flour sack is much too valuable as a collectable bit of history preserved whole to cut it up. You can buy them on eBay, $10-$20 for a square yard. While that is certainly a little more than a modern reproduction would cost you, it certainly isn't too precious to be used. A decent crafter could easily produce a more valuable craft using vintage material. I wouldn't be surprised if there were reprints of some of the patterns from one of the companies that makes fabrics for quilts. 

 I just found a ton on etsy. Some are already cut into squares. I used to have shirts made out of those sacks. Mom would send dad to the store with a piece of the fabric so he'd get the right one and she could finish our shirts (3 boys with matching feed sack shirts). How old are you/when was your mother making the shirts?  I'm in my late 60s, and she was making the shirts in the 50s as I recall. You mean this place isn't full of 14 yrs old with raging hormones? It's true. There are grown-ups here. 

Hell, we even have a couple of our own subs- /r/RedditForGrownups, /r/eldertrees.. now get off my lawn! nah that's tumblr, we're all lonely 30 something males with gigantic glorious neck beards  apparently with the occasional 60 year old. I am sure he is sporting a glorious white neckbeard though.  White from all the flour sacks Imagine firms doing this now? They would charge people to take something that's waste, and if no one paid for it they'd throw it away.   you have to realize why they did this in the first place. Flour is a commodity. There is virtually 0 difference between two different sacks of flour. Companies have no way on competing on price with commodities. So they instead compete by having the best prints on their sacks because when someone buys it they know they could reuse the sack so they will buy the one with the print they like better &gt;Flour is a commodity.

What you're trying to say is flour is a fungible good. Never pass up an opportunity to use the word fungible. Such a great, uncommon word. Very much this.  Initially it might have started out as the mill owner wanting to provide a benefit to customers, but yes, it definitely had a competitive motivation to make those more bizarre or cutesy. I dunno, Starbucks has a "free coffee grounds for your garden" program, which is similar in a lot of ways. They'd have the pattern copyrighted, patented, and trademarked, and they'd sue for second uses of the shirt when my older brother outgrew it and I took it as a hand-me-down. :-&gt; My dad grew up in the 50s and his mom did that too. All eight kids, regardless of gender, basically each had a shirt of the same fabric anytime she had an urge to sew. It was pretty cute in the one picture I managed to get a hold of. Ingenuity is great. My grandma on my mom's side would open the bags up and iron them then hide them in the sofa. When she passed, story has it they tried to move the sofa and flour sacks and misc scrap went flying. My mom told me about making flower sack dresses for her younger sisters. At the time I pictured just plain white like the sacks I still saw in grocery stores at the time. Nice to know.  [deleted] They are expensive if both parents want to work.  Daycare is by far the biggest expense with raising kids.  If you have a stay-at-home parent, as was standard back in the day, they are very cheap. [Potato farmers didn't care](http://i.imgur.com/UcZB1BR.jpg) that must be so fucking itchy.  Oh god, my arm pits, under my breasts, *the small of my back.* Everything itches! Miss Idaho, 1954 I have an old flour-sack apron that belonged to my great grandmother, I can get a photo if anyone is interested :)

Edit: [photo](http://imgur.com/a/y0yI2) I would love to see it. My great aunt would always speak of the slip her mother made her from one of those patterned flower sacks. I have several as well, but my great granny was in a wheelchair at times and preferred a half apron. She put great pockets in them for all her doodads, and they were made from her chicken feed sacks.

The weird thing is, I sometimes wear them, and no matter how many stains are on them, they always wash out perfectly clean.

No pics cuz I'm an old Luddite. Holy cow. My grandmother had a couple of these. I never realized they were from flour sacks.  Meat used to come wrapped in white muslin. My nan's best friend collected the muslin, boiled it, and made her wedding dress out of it. The only problem was, boiled muslin shrinks and then gradually stretches out again, so the morning of her wedding day she had to stand on a chair while my nan chopped a foot of spare cloth off of the bottom. 

This was during the war in England, rather than Depression America, but similar principle. gosh that sounds neat, you wouldn't by any miracle have pictures? I don't think so, but I'll ask my Dad. That is so freaking nice.  I'm happier after reading this. They put flower on flour to empower the dour. this is a childhood memory my dad often brings up. He was born in 44 and raised in south georgia. Women would trade fabrics to get enough to make a dress. The stuff that Depression era people went through was insane. They basically made the most from being forced into a somewhat third world situation. Making clothes from feed/flour bags was a common thing then as well. My grandpa would mention kids wearing clothes made out of old feed bags (aka gunny sack)

I have a book from the early 80's of people recollecting being children during that time. Economy was in shambles, there were no jobs to be found. A lot of people lived on farms back then, so they were mostly self-sustainable for food. The problem was there were some serious droughts as well, so having a garden was a problem. One person was talking about how they planted a garden, and then it died because it didn't rain, so they resorted to eating weeds. (Still healthier than eating McDonald's, but not very filling) 

Other people talked about eating the same thing over and over for a meal. A piece of bread with some milk poured over it. This is if they were lucky enough to have a cow that provided milk. 

Another person talked about swarms of hungry grasshoppers that would eat everything in sight. They had to set backfires to try to keep them away, which would sometimes work. Otherwise whatever you were trying to grow (crops, garden) was completely gone. 

Shit was real back then.  &gt; Another person talked about swarms of hungry grasshoppers that would eat everything in sight. 

Eat the grasshoppers, problem solved. My grandma talked about how lucky they were to get a serving of meat. She said it would be maybe a once a week thing and it would by the size of one of those tiny gluten free loaves of bread from today to feed 9 people. So they'd all get like a few bites of meat, and that was the big treat of the week. Crazy. Reminds me of the All In The Family episode when Archie gets drunk and tells Meathead about being called Shoebooty in school because he didn't have matching shoes. The one book/movie absolutely banned in my house is *The Grapes of Wrath*.  My mom is a *bone fide* Great Depression "Okie" and says: "I lived it once; I don't need to relive it." My grandma and great aunts have talked several times about how they had dresses made of flour sacks.  Just thinking of how far this country has come since then is amazing.  Then again, those flour sacks were probably better quality than the stuff we have now. And hand made by you or a neighbor. Not by a foreign semi-slave seamstress.  So I recognized some of the patterns other redditors showed. 

My grandmother made each of my siblings and myself baby blankets and considering the first child was born in 76, this may not be true feedsack materials but I wonder if fabric makers continued using the patterns? 

[Enjoy some patterns](http://imgur.com/a/h3Pc1)! And now you have to join Costco if you ever want to buy that much flour. [GG Flower Mills](http://i.imgur.com/ijyQTVD.jpg) [deleted] He's in a flour mill, and you're worried about the fabric? To expand on this: large amounts of even semi flammable finely dispersed particles can end in big boom.

 I work in a kitchen and just threw a handful of flour into my grill.  My coworker is giving me a dirty look
 why Because I wanted to see a flare up.  Was disappointed, nothing happened.  But now I have a mess to clean up Oh, god, I can't stop laughing at the image of you trying to explain yourself.

"Mark, what the fuck, man?"

"But!  This...  the guy on the internet!  He said about the dispersed fine particles!  The... hazardous... In a factory- you know, where people were smoking!  IT's ON REDDIT!  

*regains composure* 

...okay...  let me start over.   See, back in the day, women used to use sacks to sew clothing for their kids.." "Mark, shut the fuck up and clean your grill, dumbass." "this fucking guy.." It really only happens within a very small range, perfect amount of oxygen and perfect distribution of particulates.

It happens with poorly maintained sugar refineries. Do not try this. I feel i have to say this now.

Also happens with corn, grain(usually in silos) and sawdust.

Again, don't throw sugar, or anything into open flame, but if you decide to, i take no responsibility as an irresponsible person. BRB getting sugar http://gifmansion.com/GM/uploads/2012/03/dontdothat.gif You need to get it really finely dispersed before it will ignite. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0nwRxFYG17Y The fabric? Do you have any idea how explosive flower can be? [Indeed](http://th04.deviantart.net/fs70/PRE/i/2011/108/9/5/zelda_collab__bomb_flower_by_illuminatii-d3d7xpr.png) [Irrelevant](https://heavyeditorial.files.wordpress.com/2014/03/bomb.gif?w=320) [deleted] More than that. You do not smoke around flour. When mixed with air it is highly explosive.  All my mother's cloths were made from flour sacks.  I always loved the idea of useful packaging. Jelly that came in jars that were used as drinking glasses, cookies that came in tins, mustard or spreading cheese that came in crockery etc etc...

edit: when I was a kid I especially loved the [red thin prince albert tobaccos tins](http://artifaxbooks.com/princetin1.JPG) and the [squarish hershey's powdered chocolate milk tins](http://www.1stopretroshop.com/photos/k82468.jpg).  [Clothing comprised 12% of the US household budget in the 1950s, compared to 4% in 2007.](http://www.investopedia.com/financial-edge/1009/50-years-of-consumer-spending.aspx) I wish they'd do that with McDonald's bags. Yeah everything would be see through! If the paper turns clear, it's your [window to weight gain](http://i.imgur.com/mxjQiJO.gifv) Most of their customers would need a hell of a lot of bags. Most of their customers already have a hell of a lot of bags 2015 version....

"When they realized women were using sacks to make clothes for their kids, flour mills started firing female employees."

Edit: I misinterpreted this.  Thought the employees were using excess sacks.  The company did this for the consumers.  they'd start printing "NOT FOR USE AS CLOTHING" all over it /r/firstworldanarchists would drool over that shirt.  You can't tell us what to drool over Or they'd start stitching the sacks together with thread that dissolves when washed. Nah, they'd just charge more for the printed sacks.  The plain ones would be "regular" price.  Wall Street rules. No, they would print the patterned sacks, but use a weaker weave to offset the cost of the ink and printing. *Then* they would hike up the price and then have a nationwide 'sale' on it at the old price for a month or so. Six months later, the unprinted sacks rise in price to match the printed ones. Surely they had cheaper and more expensive brands back then too. I expect the really elaborate designs were not the cheap stuff. Coca Cola 
http://www.wired.com/2013/03/colalife-piggybacks-on-coke/ There is a really cool Iron Man comic where he buys a soda company.  When they ask him about it he says that he hates soda, but once his company finishes his aids vaccine they would use the machines for distribution. Wow that's actually really cool. And started selling advertising space on the sacks.   By the 1950s paper bags cost much less than cotton sacks. Companies began to switch over to this less expensive packaging. School children w/o the benefit of older siblings for hand-me-downs were often ostracized and bullied by their peers for wearing poorly constructed sack-outfits their mothers had hastily printed out the night before. My mom and I have a ton of flour sack fabric that my great grandma saved. They make awesome kitchen towels.  Poor billy had a whole garden of a wardrobe that he got beat up for. My grandfather remembers his mother going to the market to pick out flour sacks specifically for clothes. I guess I didn't realize it was that popular My father wrote a book about growing up on the farm in the 1940s, and one of the lines in it is "You could always tell where the farmer bought his feed and seed by his wife's dresses." My grandmother has told me about the old days when this was the norm. It was not just flour either. It was almost any sack, even feed sacks for the animals. She often speaks of the "pretty dresses" and "beautiful designs" they made. I am from the southern portion of the united states. My famiy has deep roots in the Appalachian mountians. The people might be seen as backwards hillbillies, but they got by with next to nothing, and it makes me proud to call them my ancestors. Today they'd modify the cloth to disintegrate when repurposed. My mother has told me that all of her childhood underwear was made out of flour sacks. She said they were super comfy. She's 75. Sunbonnet SUE, the first downmarket brand name in clothing.

 This was back in the great depression My grandma says it wasn't that great but there was a lot of depression.  I liked when they put jelly and jam in reusable glasses. Is this the origin of flower print dresses from the 50's? Wow, thanks for the short trip down memory lane. At some point when I was little, my mother told me about flour sack dresses her mother had made for her, and how all the kids in school would wear similar prints for boys shirts, girls dresses etc. I remember thinking all these kids were walking around with rough sacks that had "FLOUR" printed in large letters. I think I carried that impression for a few years until my mom told me about the flower patterns. Suddenly it made sense to me. Funny how things have changed.... today, companies would probably either change their packaging to prevent reuse, or start charging extra. I came here expecting people to be complaining that this was in /r/pics or saying that the title was untrue. Glad to see a civil comments section. Or maybe I'm just here too early... I can scream about it being a repost, if you like. Not even a new title.  Teenage girl: Do you like my new dress made of a flour sack? I know it's a bit short and tight, but look at the little flowers!
Teenage boy: Hell yeah! I got a pair of shorts made from a flower sack too, oh and look, it's Self-Raising!! My grandma grew up in rural West Virginia, and used to go to the store with her parents so she could pick out her next dress! 

Thank you in advance for your hilarious incest joke.  Flour factory flourishes for fast floral philanthropy  and today they would have it in the workers contracts that bags are the property of the mill and not for use for clothing. They also would make plastic bags in horrid colours at extra cost to discourage the practise, then sue anyone who wore anything slightly resembling a flour bag. 

This is why companies these days are seen as bad guys; because they actually are bad guys. I guess nowadays, our *favorite* and most discussed companies would then try to create regulations that ensure, that the sacks are actually the company's property and need to be returned to them after a few weeks. Failure to comply would result in fees that are about 10 times as high as a full sack. The prints were used not just for children's clothing, but sometimes for quilts. Or, the scraps left after cutting out a child's dress could be used for quilts. Previously, sometimes if people were really poor, a Mom might have to use a flour sack for kids' clothing, but then a dress or shirt would have the label, "X Brand Flour", and kids felt ashamed. So, the prints were probably a real blessing. Quilters still look for these.  They make great quilt squares and help demonstrate that eras fabric.  Cool stuff. Baby boomers are aggressively wasteful because their parents re-used things like this and it embarrassed them. Millennials are aggressively conservative with resources because they are embarrassed by their parents' wasteful habits. I wish the world was still like this. Today, nobody would buy that much flour because very few people actually cook, and the packaging would go straight in the trash without a second thought.  He was hanging out the whole time because he knew the light wasn't right yet. He was hanging out the whole time because OP was creeping him out. "Is that guy *still* watching me? Fuck it, I'm thirsty." Looks like he had to use the facilities with that standing position...maybe that's what took so long... I bet you he likes OP. He looks pretty *horny* from this picture.   Dad, please Leave your dad alone, his little jokes are all he has now. Ever since ye all moved out on us ...he just mopes about. . Telling gags to Whiskers in the basket is his only audience .. &gt;ye all ?

Is that like medieval red neck? Listen all ye all it's a sabotage  Can't stand it, I know ye planned it I chuckled mightily at "medieval redneck", but was that really the linguistic anomaly that stood out to you in that post? CORAL Must be OP's mom.  Hah, rhino what you're trying to do here. indeed. Great shot! Would be nice if all animals were as considerate! Great Scott! The sun isn't even up yet and this guy wants to take my picture? Let's wait until there's some light out at least!  Great spot!  But if only he got other animals there too  Great plot! Of land I mean. Fantastic place to take a picture! Great cot!  If you waited 7 hours, I'd want something nice to lay on too. Great Trot! That miniature horse probably looks very graceful prancing through the savannahs Is it a sunrise or a sunset? Can't be determined according to this article. 

http://www.livescience.com/34065-sunrise-sunset.html Sunset. The OP posted more information below. It's cool because I've never seen a triceratops in the sunset before. Good Guy Rhino, has golden hour instinct  I'm very glad to see that everyone likes this picture, so I should add a little context in a single post.

This was taken at the xxx waterhole in Etosha National Park, Namibia [edit: location removed, see comments below]. This waterhole wasn't the toughest location to wait at as there is a shaded and seated area, but it is very beautiful. I waited there for 7 hours from noon to 7pm. Only a few springboks showed up in the afternoon, but the real show eventually started at sunset. It was overcast and I didn't think there would be a sunset, but the sun finally pierced through the clouds... and this wonderful rhino came to have drink and bathe, just as the sun was disappearing below the horizon.

I went back the following day and was lucky enough to see four rhinos this time, with one male courting two females successively. Lots of grunting and horn-touching, and the male disappeared in the bush with one female later on.

I travelled in Africa for 6 months from South Africa to Ethiopia and this is without question one of the most memorable moments of my trip. Etosha was really incredible, as were Kruger and Kalahari in South Africa. Seeing the wildlife from up close is such an intense experience. Go if you ever get the chance!

Finally I have a [photography website](http://www.johangeorget.com) for those who wish to follow me, as well as a page on Facebook (Johan Georget). I hope no one will mind me that I share the links here.



--- 
Edit: some of you have asked if I sell prints. The answer is yes, but it will only be possible through my website in a couple of days. Reply to this post here, send me a PM or an email, and I'll contact you back with the details very soon :-)

Edit 2 [20/05/2015]: it is now possible to buy prints of the picture [here](http://www.johangeorget.com/Prints/Prints/)! Thank you for sharing this moment (and story) with us! It might not mean much, but this picture is truly amazing, especially for those of us who have no means of visiting these kinds of places.  Not to put a downer on the photo, because it is stunning, but is it wise to post the exact location of the picture?  Isn't this a no no because poachers and hunters will know where there is a rhino?  If this is in a protected area then forgive my ignorance.

Great photo, again.  :) That's a good thought, but I suspect the poachers know which parks have rhinos, where the watering holes are, and probably a lot more about the animals' movement patterns. And if they don't there's probably a more direct means to getting that information than Reddit. Today I planned on dicking around on reddit, but now that I know where a rhino is, I think I'm gonna go no-scope that thing instead. No 360? Filthy casual. Thank you. That's a very valid comment. In most parks visitors can actually report recent sightings of animals, however the reporting of rhino sightings has been forbidden exactly for this purpose. 

That said, I wouldn't be too concerned about this waterhole. First there isn't much poaching in Namibia, as poaching mostly happens in Kruger in South Africa. The Kruger Park is a transfrontier park, with an "open" (as open as the bush allows) border with Mozambique, and this is the main gateway for rhino poachers. Namibia is much more remote. 

In addition, this waterhole is very close to one of the three main camps in the parks. Poachers wouldn't dare going to this place, they would be seen immediately. But thanks for your concern. I'll edit my post. I can just imagine the poachers sitting around, oiling up their guns, repeatedly pressing the refresh button of r/pics.  
  
"I've got a cake someone made for their deceased grandfather, a man on a skateboard, and a dog that ate a lizard, but no rhinos yet!"   You've taken some really amazing pictures. I particular like [this New Zealand one.](http://www.johangeorget.com/Travel/Oceania/NewZealand/18495208_GTNksv#!i=2426509107&amp;k=rCjQXmS)

How did manage to get to travel to many places? Thank you! My job led me to live in South-East Asia and Australia, and I have been exploring the places around. This is also my passion, and this is where I choose to spend money (instead of for example having a car). That's really cool. I'm a little jealous. I only have three weeks of vacation per year. I try to use it as best as possible (like for example this year I'm going to Iceland for a couple weeks), but there's only so much travelling you can do with that amount of time. Is this the water hole with the little amphitheater set up nearby where you can watch? I think it's in the northern part of the park (Etosha). 

If so, my most memorable moment in 6 months in East/Southern Africa was at the same place! It's a huge park, so it isn't like the canned private parks, but I saw a leopard, 6 hyenas, 2 rhinos and about 40 elephants all descend on the same water hole within about 5-10 min. I even watched the rhinos have sex, which is incredibly rare (!!!). 

Etosha is magical. Great shot. Sorry if I one-upped you, but Etosha gets me fired up. :) Yes it is the same waterhole. It's so incredible indeed, I would go back in a heartbeat! Nice dude I was at the same place. Did you get to do Rhino trekking in zimbabwe ? Was the watering hole pretty small?  I can't seem to find it on Google Maps.  I'm guessing it's not the swimming pool at the lodge (?).  

Sounds like a great trek - did you make it to any of the national parks in Tanzania?  Visiting those are some of the highlights of my life.   Great pic, I'll be there in around 3 months. I'm a pretty poor photographer though so I doubt I'll be getting any shots like this.  Not with that attitude you wont Great story and great photo. I wish I could travel for 6 months and take pictures all over Africa. If you don't mind my asking, what kind of gear do you take with you on such a long trip? I imagine you would like to travel as light as possible while bringing the appropriate equipment for any situation. What does your camera bag look like on a trip like this? That sounds absolutely amazing. I was about to unsubscribe from /r/pics, but then I was worried I'd miss actually good content that might not make its way to other subreddits. Stuff like this. Awesome picture! Thanks for posting. Thank you, glad you like it! The plan was to stake out the watering hole and wait for all types of wild life to come? Great shot! Yes that was exactly my plan! I went to the waterhole at noon as it can be the best time of the day to see wildlife, when it is very hot and animals need to drink. However it was a very slow day, only a few springboks showed up during the next 7 hours. On top of that it was overcast and I thought there wouldn't be a sunset.

I almost turned away, but decided to stay a little bit longer. The sun eventually pierced through the clouds and set the sky ablaze. Finally, just as it was about to go below the horizon, this rhino showed up and came for a drink (and a bath later on). It was definitely worth the wait!  People have ALREADY spent more time looking at the picture that you took than the 7 hours it took to capture it. It reminds me somewhat of what they go through in the filming of Planet Earth etc. Obviously you aren't on the scale level as what some of those guys have to do, but maybe you should think about it. I am glad there are people like you that enjoy getting pictures like this enough to spend the time.  Thank you, I hadn't thought of it and this a very nice thought! 

The guys at Planet Earth are indeed incredible, and I remember the Behind the Scenes sequences in which they comment their struggle to get the right footage, notably for the snow leopard hunting sequence. 

The BBC has also recently made an "Africa" series worth watching. Is this Tsavo National Park? I stayed in the rangers cabin and this looks exactly like the watering hole outside! Apparently it's Halali camp in Namibia. You could be making those up and I would have no idea. Aye it's Halali. Instantly recognised that waterhole. I sat there for hours and didn't see a thing. That is, until I realised some of the rocks were moving and [zoomed in...](http://i.imgur.com/mRXqebl.jpg) Oh man, that Africa series was so damn good Really gorgeous, wonderful pic.  Made me think about life &amp; stuff (I identified with the solitary rhino).  Thanks for sharing! The final result has a beautiful juxtaposition. The lone Rhino, dying of the light, darkness versus endless space.  What a cool thought. Went back and looked at the photo a little longer. Truly beautiful work. Thank you for sacrificing 7 hours to create this. Absolutely beautiful picture!

On this topic, don't animals generally go to watering holes at dawn/dusk, rather than in the heat of the day? (specifically because its too hot during the day) This has always been my understanding/experience... Thank you!

It depends. Predators would usually go at dawn or dusk, but other animals would go either when they feel too hot, too thirsty, or when predators are not around.

I saw up to 10 species concurrently at noon at one waterhole (four [here](http://i.imgur.com/RgUTlZb.jpg)). Giraffe, zebra, kudu, springbok, ostrich, wildebeest, oryx, warthog, jackal and... hyena. But all the giraffes [ran away](http://i.imgur.com/OMeaDGy.jpg) when the hyena came for a [bath](http://i.imgur.com/kMyNAhe.jpg).  Thos are awesome shots You should post those pics as separate posts so that more people can see them! Amazing! I particularly like the one where the zebras are lined up in a row. Incredible shots, added as wallpapers, cheers! Thank you, my pleasure. Were you expecting a rhino, or was it just super awesome lucky? Amazing pic.  I was hoping for a rhino, but elephants would have been great too!  is it going on your wall? Worth it. Nature is awesome. :) It really is a gorgeous shot. As a nature lover I appreciate you taking so much time and putting in the effort to share this with us. I can't inside how awesome it must have been to catch the first glimpse of it coming out of the bush.  Worth every minute for sure! What a great shot! You selling prints yet?
 [Here's a short documentary,] (https://vimeo.com/8910838) showing the effort that goes into a National Geographic photo, your story of waiting out at a watering hole sounds similar. Take a look when you have the time and you'll enjoy it! Rad picture btw!  This is great! Couldn't agree more.  Amazing shot!  Thanks for sharing. OP is lying, [here's the original untouched version!](http://i.imgur.com/4MrBrEj.jpg) [A predator approaches...](http://i.imgur.com/oGAANz0.jpg) Such is the way of the wild. Was expecting Nessy. Can you do that? [http://imgur.com/cG9uAbA](http://imgur.com/cG9uAbA) Wow. that's an amazing shot! Dedication right there! One of the best pics I've ever seen in r/pics! Glad to see some originality and not the usual re-posts without even crediting the source.  Thanks very much. It's going to poop any minute... Am pooping right now myself should I check my surroundings for patient OPs? yep hes in the prime pooping position https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-VN2KRxTdjE Came for this. Was not disappoint. Is it just me or does it look like he's taking a dump? http://i.imgur.com/soXO9ny.jpg A bit scatty, but not that risky. [Sound](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PSKQ3ZNQ_O8) That's a lot like the A-10 strafing videos from last night. Oh, so that's what they mean when they say the shit hit the fan if so, it would make a spectacular 'de-motivational' poster, just needs a good byline. Totally.

"And this, is my toilet pool." No wonder no other animals go there a very majestic dump Waiting for 7 hours for that asshole with the camera to go away so he could take a shit.  Finally he just couldn't hold it anymore. Guy wanted his privacy but just couldn't hold it in anymore.  [When Nature Calls](http://i.imgur.com/BjzUxnf.jpg) Kinda hot in these rhinos. my new wallpaper. thanks How long before some Dad joker posts a photo of his newborn baby with the same title? This photo is so great! Nice shot! Hopefully these amazing animals will make a comeback and we can continue to see them for years to come. Thanks for only shooting with a camera  [Fixed it](http://i.imgur.com/4MrBrEj.jpg). Dat reflection  my new wallpaper. thanks I love how the landscape frames the rhino, so beautiful.  I could die happy if I witnessed that. Well you better hurry up, fucking poachers are killing them right and left.  [deleted] Plot twist: OP is a poacher  Great picture.  Reminds me of [this old Far Side comic.](http://i.imgur.com/Nr0aPhZ.png) Beautiful!  Any chance of a higher-res version?  I would love to have this as my (2880x1800) desktop. Seconded. And thirded.  Amazing job. This is a truly incredible photograph.

Somehow I think reddit would like it even more if Jim Carey was emerging from the rhino's ass, a la [Ace Ventura](https://media3.giphy.com/media/13isTBiv1jKu8U/200_s.gif) The last unicorn. Crazy beautiful! Is this professional or a hobby? Thank you! Let's say that I am a serious hobbyist. I have a full time job - or rather I had, as I left my job in September to travel for a year - but have been selling my photos on the side as well. &gt; but have been selling my photos on the side as well.

You're now a professional, you were a hobbyist.  Pretty cool :) I have a feeling that, before I die, these guys will be extinct. And that's unfortunate because they are my favorite animal. this is the only acceptable way to shoot a rhino Nice black rhino, it reminds me of the secret rhino gatherings that were filmed where they all congregate at midnight and have a little social time, great footage if you can find it. Looks like Halali in Etosha?  Are you thinking of this video? http://www.discovery.com/tv-shows/africa/videos/a-secret-rhino-gathering/

I have been very lucky to see such a gathering the day after, at the same place!

After being so enthralled with this rhino at sunset, I went back the day after... one male rhino courted a female one, then a second one, decided that he preferred the first one, bathed with her and grunted with her for a long time. A fourth rhino came after.
The picture isn't as good - it was later at night - but [here](http://i.imgur.com/GdLWb8g.jpg) is a shot of it.  Beautiful! Thanks for sharing it is fantastic behavior! Great job! Another great shot. Thanks for sharing. OP got a closer shot
http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_me4qp0nDV41rpz1x3.gif &gt; I came here to see this Great work! Where is this? Do you shoot there often?  Thanks. This is the xxx waterhole in Ethosha, Namibia. I wish I could shoot there often... I was there for 6 days "only".

Edit: location removed. Surprised you had to wait so long for one to come. I was there 2 weeks ago and just after sunset, four rhinos came and started fighting. Was fantastic to see.  Mind blown.  This picture is absolutely gorgeous. Great shot.

I like the subtle story of extinction this photo makes me think about. http://imgur.com/jBbUkZB Now this is a goddamn picture worthy of an upvote on /r/pics. This picture is absolutely captivating. Might be the best picture I've ever seen in my entire life. Well worth the wait. Holy shit, is a 7-hour stretch normal for nature photography? Dont tell me i was the only one who got the picture of a mother giving birth for 7 long ours and the babyboy finally popped out of the "bush", from reading only the title? :P at first I thought you waited 7 hours for him to poop. where can I get a print of this? I'd like to put it up on my son's wall -- his nickname is Ryno; much like [this guy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ryne_Sandberg) God damn paparazzi.  I wish this was a photoshop battle. The title and pic are rife with opportunity! Is that a black rhino? Seems like 7 hours is a long time to wait to see a white rhino, but a black rhino!! I think it was a black rhino. 

I was actually hoping to see a baby cheetah standing on the back of a black rhino calf while eating a porcupine, with rainbow and lightning in the background... but I had to shoot whatever came along.

;-) Killer shot man.  Wow that's awesome I guess you will probably understand how the korean waiting for the siberian tiger felt. He waited for years hiding in the woods with minimal food, nutrients, or human interaction to be able to snap a few pictures.

Nice photo. Awesome shot!  outstanding pic. added to my desktop rotation! thanks That's a top shot mate.  Christ that is gorgeous.... That was worth every single fucking second. Kinda hot in these rhinos... That's weird, Rhyhorn's usually pretty common in the Safari Zone Holy shit! This is an amazing picture! Totally worth the 7 hour wait imo. :) you found a windows desktop background! How's this for a wallpaper, eh? Wow this picture took my breath away  Thank you for sharing! Great shot! Amazing! Well worth the wait I'd say.  Still better you than me. Kudos Worth it.  pic relevant:

http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-nGfhtthYe98/ToL8aXtc-jI/AAAAAAAAAag/9kpsSI7mmzc/s1600/donkey-kong-country-3.gif Is...it pooping? This is real hunting: spotted up in one location, in the heat of mid-day until dusk, had to will him/her self to endure despite 7 hours of nothing, and then when it looked like the day and all of the effort was a wash...took the shot. And here's a once-in-a-lifetime trophy with no blood that the "hunter" can show off to - and share with - everyone in the world.

*edit: I just shared your pic and story (credited to u/_johan) on my FB as a fantastic example of what an endurance hunt can look like without a death. Thank you for posting this!  Amazing!  Awsome photo!  This is actually my dream job. My mom told me ever since i was in diapers, I chose to watch discovery's mutual of omaha wild kingdom over cartoons. I have always loved studying animals and trying to get a good picture of them. When I was in high school my friends would make fun of me being fascinated with even the smallest animals like ants. 

Sadly a few years back I tried to get into it but didn't have the money for a nice camera. Also I asked a few professional photographers for some pointers and tips but they all told me its really hard to make a living out of and unless I go to school for it, that I would just be selling stock photos. Stunning. Nice work.  Great shot That watering hole looks like a giant stingray, maybe he was just making sure before he took the plunge Breathtaking picture! Well done, worth the wait! I came here hoping to see the Great Pumpkin.  I am disappointed.  7 hours were worth it, I'd say!  [slow, building applause] I would love to see a wild rhino before I die. 
I feel like one day I'll be sitting trying to describe rhinos and elephants to children who have never seen them. Amazing!!! wow. i was not expecting a rhino when i clicked on this pic. bravo. beautiful shot. amazing shot Totally worth the wait! Great shot!  So worth  Can you post the next picture where he takes a massive dump? Once in a lifetime experience. That's what she said... This is an amazing picture!  All of the colors are awesome. very seldom do i think there are good photos that make it to frontpage, but this is beautiful and well captured. I'd like to repost this and give you credit. Shall I attribute it to "_johan"?
 Thank you for sharing. I fear that one day we won't even get beautiful pictures of these animals.  Whaaaaaaa MAJESTIC! 
This was worth logging into reddit to see.  Wow, I am in awe. That is a once in a lifetime shot you have there. Glorious!  WOW! Thank you so much for sharing this amazing picture!  I'm surprised [your site](http://www.johangeorget.com/) is still up and running. The Reddit hug of death is a real thing.

Great picture! First reddit post I've seen that actually made me say, "oh wow" out loud. Gorgeous shot! Great picture, OP. Are those crocodiles or hippos or something on the opposite side of the watering hole?   Hunting with a camera is certainly the sort of hunting of which I can approve. Nice work! Amazing shot. So majestic, cracking capture. Photos like this make me wish I could make a living as a photographer and get to travel the world too. holy fuck that's an amazing picture. the only thing that would make it better is a prehistoric dino instead but the rhino fits the bill Sunset of the day...and species What a photogenic Rhino xD Wow what a shot, new desktop background Makes me sad. 

There were probably thousands of them roaming before being poached for their horns. 

 Beautiful And then you made front page on Reddit.

Worth? Get closer. He probably said the same thing. Beautiful shot. Worth the wait.  Amazing picture.


Also, that's what she said. That is spectacular! What settings did you use? And what type of camera? I'm pretty sure I've said almost these exact words twice... after each of my sons was born.  Congratulations, this is the best picture you'll take your entire life. wow beautiful picture I've been at work for 7 hours. Those are long hours too. If you wish to trade hours and locations, I'm ready!
 What a fucking awesome pic

 That is the most beautiful photo I have ever seen hands down. 

Like no joke, seriously that is an amazing photo. Thanks for my new desktop background! This is kick ass Do you have a gallery from that day? Awesome photo! Beautiful image.

Thank you for sharing, going to use it as my desktop background. I'm Dutch. My whole country is flat so when I first saw this I thought it was fake, but wow! That is a breathtaking view! It looks fake because the way it's zoomed in makes the mountain appear much larger relative to the foreground than it would appear in person. It's the same effect as those photos of the moon that zoom way in and make it appear enormous relative to the objects in the foreground.

Mt. Rainier actually looks more like this in person: http://fc06.deviantart.net/fs71/i/2011/339/a/2/seattle_skyline_by_latefor-d4i9xb8.jpg

Still really beautiful though. As a Seattle dweller, can confirm. It's a camera trick. However, the view of Rainier from Seattle still is breathtaking. It's amazing to be in the hustle and bustle of a city but be able to look off in the distance and see an untouched area of wilderness. Would you happen to know where I could find an image of Seattle viewed from the summit of Mt Rainier? Here's [a picture of Seattle from Mt. Si](http://exotichikes.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/SeattleFromSi.jpg), which is about 30 miles away, while Mt. Rainier is about 60 miles away. That massive wall of mountain behind the city is strangely terrifying.   They're the [Olympics](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Olympic_Mountains) (about 60-70 miles away from Seattle, 90-100 miles away from where this picture is taken). They're 'nothing' to gawk at, OP is standing at ~1270m (Mt. Si) while the Olympics (Mt. Olympus) reaches to ~2432m. (Rainier reaches to 4392m.) Ah I can now see why a picture from Mt Rainier might not be so useful.

Cheers for the picture though, it's a cool view of the city. My guess is that you may not be able to see it unless it's an insanely clear day. You can see rainier cause, well, it's huge. But buildings in Seattle from Rainier (again, this is my guess) would be too far to see.

Edit: the peak of the mountain is roughly 60+ miles from the downtown area, for a little reference. 

Edit 2: I just checked it out on [google maps.] (https://www.google.com/maps/@47.2316575,-122.1120289,152586m/data=!3m1!1e3) The peak of Mr Rainier to ~~Pike's~~ Pike Place Market is 59.07 miles in a straight line, I was pretty close.
Edit 3: Got called out on "Pike's" versus "Pike"... damn sticklers. I'm sure that person's ability to find a picture like that is rivaled by yours sounds like a trip to the library is in order! Ah that makes a lot more sense, but it's still just so beautiful

I never had much of an interest in America, but if something will make want to go there, it would be this picture and what I've heard about the food

EDIT: Thanks for the discussion ! it's really cool to learn about America, pretty beautiful looking The U.S. has [crazy diverse climates](http://eusoils.jrc.ec.europa.eu/projects/RenewableEnergy/Images/Climate_Zone%2011_s.jpg), it's really beautiful. You just have to know what you want and where it is ;).  Oh shit, its got all colors of the rainbow. That's pretty odd... How come that's the case ? I mean I'm sure that america is pretty large, but even a collection of countries doesn't seem to have that much varying climates Its because of the golf (gulf) stream and mountain ranges. Warm air comes up from the gulf of mexico, and cold air comes down from Canada.

Both winds travel right over the us and vary quite wildly. Giving the us rather unpredictable weather and storms.

That's at least the way I understand it.

The us is a gorgeous country though, every state has some great cities and stunning natural beauty. [Here's a good one from my state, sleeping bear dunes in Michigan. The dunes are hundreds of feat high overlooking lake Michigan.]( http://media.chicagomag.com//images/2010/0910/C201009-Fall-Travel-2010-Sleeping-Bear-Dunes-beach.jpg?ver=1284992066)

[Here's Vermont]( http://astasswissinn.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/fall.jpg)

[Kentucky]( http://oneidakentucky.homestead.com/appalachia1_op_760x417.jpg)

[Utah]( http://snautah.org/content/utahsna/images/archcanyon.png)

[South Carolina]( http://www.criswellphotography.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/01/2-2013-Beauort.jpg)

[Montana]( http://www.topbeautifulplacesworld.com/wp-content/themes/Nomad/timthumb.php?src=http://www.topbeautifulplacesworld.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/Saint-Mary-Lake.jpeg&amp;h=300&amp;w=720&amp;zc=1)

Some of these pictures are taken over 1,000 miles apart.

Overall, despite the politics, it's a really amazing country.

Edit: lol golf stream. Please stop, My freedom boner can only get so erect.  I know right? I had to go out to my back porch and fire my automatic rifle into the air just to calm down a little.  balls deep in a squealing hog? Is there any other way to fire an automatic rifle? Come on, your mom isn't **that** bad.  [Ooohh say caan yoouuu seeeee]( http://clashdaily.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/freedom-1.jpg) Recommend for promotion to ambassador level 5. Oh god Montana....I couldn't believe how gorgeous it was when I visited last year. It blew my mind. And that water...so pristine! I always hear about how beautiful USA is so here's some competition from Australia. Some taken a little under 4000 km apart. 

[NSW](https://i.imgur.com/YcF0ZrT.jpg)

[NSW](https://dd978y4vwod92.cloudfront.net/uploads/photos/images/50940/37b4ff10292f87d2dcc7b1d66470ad2f-large.jpg)

[NSW](https://i.imgur.com/YEN5eZ1.jpg)

[NSW](http://www.visitswanseabay.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/Rhossili-bay_gower-peninsula.jpg)

[QLD](https://i.imgur.com/TSs2NuA.jpg)

[QLD](https://i.imgur.com/zrRuqKT.jpg)

[QLD](https://i.imgur.com/FQZaXzz.jpg)

[QLD](https://i.imgur.com/91u67Cd.jpg)

[NT](https://i.imgur.com/hsaVgaa.jpg)

[NT](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/42/15/e1/4215e152196b6f3a631bae38f53f4b44.jpg)

[VIC](https://i.imgur.com/aSZpqoJ.jpg)

[VIC](https://i.imgur.com/nINT93H.jpg)

[SA](https://i.imgur.com/OCGeZlo.jpg)

[WA](https://i.imgur.com/ruyy9Yz.jpg)

[WA](https://i.imgur.com/Nj24c4v.jpg) You have less colors on the map!! Gotta hand you that one :P Americans also get to walk on the floor, not the ceiling. I think Washington State does a good job of showing diversity. All these pics are ~2.5hours from Seattle.

[We got Mountains] (http://fatgirldoestheworld.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/leprechaun_lake_enchantments.jpg)

[Rain forest] (http://www.activetravels.com/blog/userfiles/image/olympicnatlpark.jpg)

[Beach] (https://farm3.staticflickr.com/2441/4018375558_8e40141fb8_o.jpg)

[Plains] (http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/3/32/Manastash.JPG)

[Sand Dunes] (http://www.ft4wd.com/_Media/Pictures/2008/02-16-08_Moses_Lake_Sand_Dunes/IM000675.JPG)

[Glaciers] (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue_Glacier#/media/File:Mount_Olympus_Blue_Glacier_from_Lateral_Moraine_Panorama.jpg) Yes, also volcanoes, desert canyons, waterfalls, and mile wide rivers. Oh it's on son.

[hawaii](http://www.travelwarther.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/Hawaii-Beaches-Wallpaper.jpg)


[hawaii again](http://cdn.superbwallpapers.com/wallpapers/nature/hawaii-1851-1680x1050.jpg)

[Alaska](http://cdn.alaska.org/assets/content/cache/made/assets/content/sliders/Home%20Page/977_408_s_c1/Alaska-Vacations-2.jpg)

[Another Alaska](https://www.travelalaska.com/~/media/Images/Travel%20Alaska/Content/HomePage/ChugachMountains.jpg)
 
[Colorado](http://m8.i.pbase.com/v3/23/346823/1/47680928.P8120199.jpg)

[Another Colorado](http://jamieutt.files.wordpress.com/2012/10/aspen_colorado.jpeg)

[Maine](http://gottagotoursbypatti.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Acadia-national-park-Maine-USA.jpg)

[Washington](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/0/0f/Diablo_Lake_%28Washington_State%29.jpg)

[California](http://moon.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/02/123rf_BigSur_California_9197946_ml.jpg)

[New york](https://kellieplace.files.wordpress.com/2012/06/autumn-in-the-catskills.jpg)

[New mexico](https://ilovenewmexico.files.wordpress.com/2011/01/red-rocks.jpg)

[Texas](http://i.imgur.com/CmLYg.jpg)

[Minnesota](http://images.nationalgeographic.com/wpf/media-live/photos/000/031/cache/minnesota_3101_600x450.jpg)

[Wyoming](http://www.discoveramerica.com/~/media/d126ddef80ce4410b5c5dfe4eac41f5c/239%20wyoming%20grandtetonnationalpark%20feature.jpg?w=1046&amp;h=380&amp;bg=ffffff)

[So Australia](http://31.media.tumblr.com/4e30d3f1c844e28e7aea5b50ba935f2b/tumblr_mwbbakSMpX1rc3z3ro1_500.gif)


(you have a very pretty country as well.)

 Where is that in Texas? I don't think that picture was taken in Texas.  Looks like the image comes up in a Google search of Texas because of a Texan mountain climbing blog where it's posted.  However it looks like it's part of a series of "Amazing nature landscapes" or some such that circulated blogs on the internet months before this particular one put it up.

The part that makes me suspicious are the thick groves of tall coniferous trees in the shot.  These type of trees can be found is some parts of Texas, but they're pretty sparse.   Gorgeous. But here in America, as I walk through the beautiful countryside, I don't have to work about every fucking creature killing me. I go to the cities and hang around cops if I want to be in constant fear for my life. Come on now. That only works if you're a minority. Australian wildlife death is much more equal opportunity.  Americans have BEARS for fucks sake BEARS and cougars and actual really big things that can fuck your day up. I don't get the fear of some tiny spider where you can go to any hospital and get a antivenom. There is no anti i just got my face bitten off by a fucking bear serum. I value my life, Australia scares the hell out of me. &gt;golf stream

Also why golf is so popular here. When it hails "golf ball-sized hail" it's actually frozen golf balls. I'm no scientist so I probably can't give you a very comprehensive answer, but I think there are a lot of unique forces that shape the american climate and geology. We have a huge ocean on either side of us, plus the gulf of mexico. There is one pretty massive mountain range (the Rockies) that cuts up and down through most of the continent, and we have another older and smaller range through the east (the Appalachians). I don't know why, but the oceans effect the coastlines differently in different places. Some places on the California coast are pretty much identical to places on the Mediterranean coast. And then you have the south where we touch the Gulf of Mexico and it is a giant swamp. And I am sure there are a hundred other causes that I don't know of.  

I live in Kansas (right smack dab in the middle of the country, where the blue turns to orange), and the change in climate throughout the state is fascinating in itself. Most of the state is fairly dry, and has lots of prairie, at least where it hasn't been converted to farmland. A lot of the moisture we get we get from the air that comes up from the Gulf of Mexico. Because it is moving from East to West, the eastern prairies are far more lush than the western. The East has grasses like Big Bluestem that can grow to be about 6 feet tall. As you start to move westward, Big Bluestem is replaced by Little Bluestem which only gets to be about 3 feet tall, and by the time you hit Western Kansas and Eastern Colorado the grasses may only grow a few inches tall. And we don't get any moisture from the Pacific Ocean because the Rocky Mountains suck the air dry before it hits us. And then possibly even weirder is the East of the state. Everything is prairie until BAM, you hit humid forests and the methed out abomination that is the state of Missouri. Even the animals are different! Go out to the prairie and you might meet [this guy](http://m5.i.pbase.com/o6/15/915115/1/136374165.u7JdK49B.CRH07554.jpg), the Prairie Rat Snake. He hides in the brown grasses and eats small mammals and such. But then drive an hour East into the forest and you won't find the Prairie Rat Snake. You'll find [this guy](https://www.michigan.gov/images/black_rat_snake_101499_7.jpg), the Black Rat Snake. He does the same thing, but he hides in the shady forest. Two separate species that fill exactly the same role, but one of them is adapted to hide in the prairie and the other the forest.  &gt; I probably can't give you a very comprehensive answer

Liar. That was incredibly comprehensive... It's a combination of the large difference in latitude between the northern and southern borders, the young mountains on the west coast, and the jet stream. 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Climate_of_the_United_States

Also, here's a (baked potato quality) pic of Mt. Rainer from the top of the Columbia Tower. You wouldn't see anything like OP's pic from Seattle, though the mountain is still gorgeous.
http://imgur.com/Q82fTwe It still looks like a huge floating mountain to me. A good chunk of the diversity is due to the mountain ranges in the west and the gulf of mexico. The ranges along the west coast cast a large rain shadow over the western united states which is why much of it is dry. Fortunately for the midwest and southeast the gulf of mexico provides lots of moist air giving them a wetter climate. Its kind of fun to think that if the Appalachian mountains were taller and wrapped along the gulf coast into Texas the southeast and midwest would be as dry as places like Utah and Wyoming. At first I was a bit annoyed that the Netherlands isn't on that map but I've lived here 30 years and I still don't understand the weather here either so it makes sense! Here's a shot of [Nederland, Colorado](https://s3.amazonaws.com/images.fineartamerica.com/images-medium-large/nederland-colorado-scenic-autumn-view-boulder-county-james-bo-insogna.jpg)

Cuz 'merica

 Yeah Seattle's awesome. I've lived in California all my life but would love to move there some day.

On a somewhat unrelated note, Amsterdam is on my bucket list. The northwest US has some of the most beautiful national parks/forests you will ever see.  You can't go wrong visiting that portion of the country.  Is this simply from sitting a long way away with a big fat zoom? Yes, a VERY long telephoto lens would compress the scene to this extent and make the mountain appear that big. Yes, just don't attempt to climb Rainier first without bringing it an offering of gravel. If you don't feed it gravel, it becomes angry. His name is Malcolm. But, you're only making it bigger with every handful of gravel you bring. Then, when the time comes, it will become enraged at some tourist who didn't bring an offering. With all of the gravel it has stockpiled, it will be larger and more magnificent than you could imagine.

Then, it rises and calls forth its armies of mountains from the young and dangerous Rockies to the wise and ancient Appalachians. A new age of mountainous rule will begin. Our driveways will forever be muddy, and our back roads treacherous. They will consume every ounce of gravel on this planet, before puling the very moon from the sky and enslaving the human race to break it apart, piece by piece. 

There will only be one hero colossal enough to stop the advance of the mountains. Op's mom will finally have her day. Taiwanese guy here. Although we do have lots of mountains, they always come in ridges and never stand out like the one in the photo. OP's scene is truly spectacular, basically nobody would believe it at first sight unless you live in BC/Washington or somewhere near Mt. Kilimanjaro. im from austria. thinking a mountain to be fake didnt occur even once to me. I bet you thought the flat part in front of the mountain was fake. I believe it stands out like that because it is a volcano.  I have lived in the shadow of Rainier for over a year now and I have to say there are still days that I look at the mountain and even in person I can't believe it is real. It is so enormous up close. I'm from Illinois and a couple of years ago I went to Washington for a family vacation. I woke up on the plane as we were getting to the airport and I thought I was dreaming when I saw the mountain coming out of the clouds. I spent that entire vacation saying, "HEY. DID YOU GUYS SEE THOSE MOUNTAINS? THERE ARE MOUNTAINS HERE! DID YOU SEE HOW TALL NATURE IS?"

Of course, I was also the only one who seemed panicked about all the smoke coming from over top of the mountains... The smoke was probably just clouds. A lot of mountain ranges act as cloud gatherers/generators. If you're on the opposite side from the side that the clouds butt up against it can look like wisps are coming up from the mountains. 
  
Unless there was a forest fire going on, but since no one else seemed remotely concerned to you I doubt it was a fire.. I'm American, and I thought it was fake. It is fakeish. They zoomed in in a way that is deceptive. Do you want Californians? Because that's how you get Californians. Come for the view, leave because you can't see it through the clouds. Stay because you can't see through the fog. Stay because there's water. *Too soon.* https://twitter.com/IsMtRainierOut Well shit. I went from Sacramento to Kent. I was thirsty. We're so wealthy in water that we like to put it all in tubs and bathe in it, just like Californians do with Hollywood money and Lotion! Kent? I'm sorry to hear that. Shh, we want them all to stay in Kent.  I'm coming from California to maple valley.... You'll be fine. Auburn you start being not as fine, and Kent is Kent Not the one in England? Cause that's all Google gives me. [This one.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kent,_Washington) The one in England is much nicer. 'The garden of England' they call it. Also full of posh cunts with white Range Rovers. There's a lot of shit holes in Kent as well. Can confirm: from a shithole in Kent  GO AWAY CALIFORNIAN REFUGEES, WE DON'T TAKE KINDLY TO YOU PEOPLE AROUND HERE [deleted] &gt;we don't take kindly to people around here

Fixed it for ya Can confirm

source: I live in Colorado, Californians are everywhere. I live in the Denver area, lived in CO my whole life. I meet far more people from out of state on a daily basis than from Colorado. Yeah it's craziness. The traffic is getting worse. Rent and bus fares on the rise. I need to find another town with mountains and liberal sensibilities because this place is getting totally saturated. Come to Canada Now there's an idea... but I can't let myself give up on this country just yet. America pisses me off all the time but goddamn it I love this country for some reason. But if Ted Cruz or some other shitbird somehow wins the election then I'm oot.  They said this about Bush too. They'll all stay in the end. 

Anyway the nicest places in Canada are only tolerable for a couple months in the summer. ;) Tell that to vancouver.  That's what happens when you build the light rail system heading south where no one will use it instead of north where everyone lives! I love how basically all of the western states with nice views hate Californians.

Source: Grandma lives next to Mt. Schweizer in Idaho We have mountains too y'know, the Cascades don't end at the CA border. I agree that California has some gorgeous mountains, but i don't think you don't have anything quite like Mt. Rainier. It can be seen from anywhere in the Puget Sound area and it stands far apart from the main range, giving it a large geographical prominence (13,000 or so iirc). Folks around here literally call it "the mountain" because there's nothing else that you could be referring to. Granted, Mt. Shasta is pretty similar (they're basically volcano cousins), it just doesn't have the advantage of being terrifyingly close to a major metropolitan area. Although after doing a little more research it seems that it might be possible to see Mt. Shasta from Sacramento in the same way, so now I'm not sure of anything. It's three am and I'm still kinda drunk. It's okay. How bout we just go YAY WEST COAST and cheers? It can be seen ~~from anywhere~~ about twice a year. We even have the tallest mountain in the ~~continental~~ contiguous 48. Alaska is continental, you mean contiguous.
  Please take them away from Austin. It is overrun with non-Texans right now. We're full god dammit!! speaking as one - i think we come for work more than for the scenery. mountain's pretty but we got those, as well as beaches and everything in between, back home.  I think Washington has available fresh water, though... IDK, my Californian tap water has been running strong as ever. People don't realize we have stuff like Mammoth and Yosemite, even Big bear and Mountain High in Southern California I lived in Hesperia/Victorville for 4+ years and lived most of the rest of my life in Washington. Big Bear is nothing like Mount Rainier, Mt. St. Helens, etc. It lacks the sheer scale and beauty the Cascades offer. Personally, I like the wider angle of that shot with the Clink in view:  http://cdn.c.photoshelter.com/img-get/I0000fHBOTV.enBE/s/860/688/Seattle-Mt-Rainier-01.jpg

 I was in Seattle for business last summer. The first 4 days I was there, the weather was what you think of as typical for Seattle: grey and cloudy.

On the morning of my 5th day there, the clouds cleared out and it became sunny, so I went for a walk around the building I was working in, as I had done every day. 

I turned the corner of this building and I was totally taken by surprise by Mt. Rainier just appearing on the horizon. I'd looked in that direction the last 4 days and seen nothing, so I was so shocked by the size of it. It looked totally fake, towering over the landscape by itself, and I just stood there, staring at it for about the next 5 minutes. It was one of the most beautiful and awe inducing things I ever seen.  

/Seattle is pretty awesome. I would totally go back. Shhhhh... Just tell people about the crappy days Rrrraaaaaaaiiiiinnnnnnnneeeeeeerrrrrrrrr Beeeeeeeeeer. Vitamin R. Photo Credits: San Tan Photography
http://santanhills.photoshelter.com/image/I00006rdSzsHGi3s I misread it in the watermark as Satan's Photography.  So disappointed now. [FTFY](http://i.imgur.com/Uw53u1p.jpg) there is a castle on a cloud... _  I like to go there in my sleep ...   Aren't any floors for me to sweep? ...    Not in my castle on a cloud.   RIDERS on the STORM! Rainier Wolfcastle  Just below the Vale lie the hilltribes Oh tell me why...do we build [castles in the sky?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ol8SLdMmztg) I'm not sure why but when I was a kid and heard that Nintendo was in Seattle this is exactly the image I had in mind.  Then I went there to interview for Microsoft and just saw a random building with the word "Nintendo" on it. Love seeing pictures of my home state. PNW is so beautiful. There are so many different climates packed into just a few states. In Washington alone there is Rain forest, forests, desert, mountains, I could go on forever.  I'm from Seattle myself. I live in Vancouver, and something I love about my location is seeing Hood and St. Helens across the river from each other. It's understandable that Natives used to think these mighty mountains were gods. Truly a beautiful place to live. Oh...... The other Vancouver.  Vancouver (not BC), Washington (not DC) Coming from a buttfuck nowhere town in the UK called St Helens, I was a little confused for a second there. Coloradan here and I rarely find anything as breathtaking as what we have here, but I've got to give props to Washington. Absolutely amazing. I'm sure when you are used to the Rockies, the Cascade mountains seem puny. I'm just glad our states aren't flat and boring like other parts of the country. The diversity is what's beautiful.  The Rainier summit is within a hundred feet of any other mountain in the lower 48, and it is easily the most [prominent](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Topographic_prominence) peak . Oh God, I drove through Washington from east to west and when I finally hit the mountains I was praising Jesus. Half your state is very dull.  I assume you took I-90 the whole way?

Most states have some dull drives if you're taking a major interstate. The eastern bit is mostly the plateau basalt flows. Thousands of feet thick it is one of the largest volcanic formations on the planet.  It can be boring tho. [deleted] Hey! You said desert! That means there's west sider that DOESNT think the state drops off after the Cascades! Amazing! Oregon Coastie here. Our state doesn't have an east side, either. I certainly hope that beast doesn't erupt any time in the next 1000 years. 

Because Seattle. The last projection I saw if it did erupt, the lava flow wouldn't touch Seattle. It would decimate the southern cities like auburn and federal way, but Seattle would be fine. 

Still bad though. 

Edit:  Lahars would be the problem, not lava.  [Mud Lahar](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lahar#Places_at_risk) rather than lava is the risk.  Very little lava came out of Mt St Helens, but lots of ash and that was pretty devastating, not to mention the blast. This group of volcanoes is quite explosive although St Helens was actually pretty small scale as eruptions go. You don't have to worry about Lava at that point. It's the shit storm that would be the Lahar of those glaciers melting.  [A couple photos I took](http://imgur.com/IMd60N4&amp;1TdqPgk) leaving Seattle on January 25, 2015. Fuck, that's what I imagine Mount Olympus should look like. No, Mt Olympus is in our state's other mountain range. I feel sooo small  /r/gainit I now want to go to Seattle. Please, come visit all you like and enjoy what we have to offer!

But if you're thinking about moving here.. uh it rains all the time the weed and coffee are no good and if you even think about adding one more car to my commute on 405 I'll punch you right in the kisser I walked down the streets of seattle a week ago and saw two gay guys walking out of the Marriage License place while passing a blunt. Then I got on the bus and nobody tried to talk to me, just like in Germany.

Truly WA is the most civilized of states.


 Pnw freeze. We'll be polite, just don't say more than hi to us.  The northwest: where everyone is friendly but nobody wants to be your friend. We're super polite all the time, but not outwardly friendly. Our reluctance to initiate a conversation is partly a result of our fear of offending anyone or being intrusive. I call it crippling politeness. I'm NYC, when I visited EVERYONE talked to me, including on the bus.  At first I was kind of freaked out, but the people are really nice, so I chilled. People talked to you in NYC and weren't telling you to get out of their way? I dont believe you My comment sucked because I did it before coffee.  I meant I'm from NYC and visited Seattle, and I really got freaked out because people were talking to me non-stop. You wanna talk 405 traffic?!?!?!? CALIFORNIANS ASSEMBLE!!! SoCal checking in. Not about that 405 life. I have a cyanide pill in a small glass tube marked "break in case of 405 rush hour" taped to my rear view mirror. I've been told that traffic on LA freeways is thick, but still moves at a slow pace.

Whereas here in Seattle it is stop and go all through the city.

Is this true? I've spent a lot of my life in the LA area, and now am moving to Washington and have spent a lot of time on seattle freeways in the last few months. 

I can tell you unequivocally that Seattle traffic is a dream compared to LA.

 Yeah I just moved to Seattle in September from years in both Houston and Austin. Everyone in Seattle bitches about traffic, especially 405. It can suck, but it's really not that bad.  I grew up in the NW and now live in Honolulu. Whenever I go home and people complain about the traffic I laugh in their faces. It once took me over 2 hours to drive 12 miles. NW traffic ain't got nothing on us. Nothing. One thing I do not miss about Bellevue is having to take 405 to get anywhere 520 Master Race representin! Better Seattle than Denver.  Yesterday right after I cleaned two feet of snow off my car, I got bit by a rattlesnake.   It looks like it's floating! Wow it's only 14,000 feet? That insane. I definitely cannot fathom how tall Everest is or even other mountains. I need to see a big mountain. That's half the height of Everest. I once spent 4 hours climbing a 3,000 foot mountain. Believe me 14,000 is definitely insane!  Everest is on a plateaeueaux, so you don't count from sea level. Still, mighty tall.
 base camp is at 17K' on Everest.  The most difficult (highest vertical) climb in the world is McKinley.  You start only marginally above sea level and go up 20K' and it takes 2 weeks.  Well, I don't know that it's reasonable to qualify difficulty in terms of 'highest vertical' climb.  I think rather the ratio of horizontal width to height from base is the better method as it determines average climb angle, in which case you get the traditional result that most mountaineers will answer: [K2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K2#/media/File:K2_2006b.jpg)

 Actually this isn't true. Denali is an impressive peak for sure, but this distinction belongs to Nanga Parbat in Pakistan. The northern face rises 23k feet in 16 miles, which is taller than Denali is altogether. http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nanga_Parbat The key here is a combination of prominence and isolation. 

* Mt. Rainier has a prominence equal to its elevation because it rises from sea-level.
* Mt. Rainier is also a highly isolated mountain, because it is a volcano (rather than being formed by plate collision). 

The combination makes for a tall-ass mountain that sticks way above the things around it, making it appear much more dramatic than even many taller mountains. There is something I've never quite understood. What is stopping all the Americans from poor states from moving to places like Cali; Washington and Oregon, and just flooding the entire state? 

Why would anyone choose to live in Kentucky for example? Can Americans just get up and move to another state? The answer to your 2nd question is yes, anyone can get up and move anywhere.  It's more of a question about the desire to do so, leaving what you know behind, friends, family, cost of living differences, happy memories, etc.  If you're looking to get a fresh start, there's absolutely nothing from stopping you from going anywhere you want in the US.  

But a lot of people choose to stay where they are.  I, for one, up'd and move from Kansas to Oregon after I graduated college.  All of my childhood friends and my family are still in Kansas because they love it there.  I love my hometown in Kansas and visit when I can, but I also [love my new city and state](http://i.imgur.com/3Bl1m2Z.jpg)!   Yes, you can freely move about the country. However, it's a bit of a drive from Kentucky (for example) to Washington. It's nearly 2300 miles. And moving a poor family that far isn't cheap. 

Seattle area also has a pretty high cost of living, your money doesn't go as far compared to some other parts of the country. The same goes with areas of California. 

Then there's the weather, I come from the eastern side of Washington state, it's cheaper to live there, but the temperature can range from sub freezing to over 100 deg F. (Not ideal especially for homeless.) the eastern side has a much more moderate temperature range, but it's damp much of the year. 

I can't wait to move back there. It's such a beautiful region.  Cost of living in, say, coastal Southern California is incredibly higher than rural or even metropolitan Kentucky. It makes it pretty hard to move.   [Banana for scale](http://i.imgur.com/gMzCcuR.jpg). Also as a seattlite there are some camera shenanigans going on to make the mountain look so huge.  He is up on the Space Needle, so you see more of the foothills making it look bigger than if you were to see it from the ground. His point still stands. He's using a throw lens, probably 200mm or 300mm. The effect sorta crunches everything in the field of view, in laymen's terms, so everything appears closer and bigger. That's what I thought. I lived in Seattle and been on the Needle but really can't remember the mountain view like this. Must be hell of a zoom. Still nice though That is one big banana.   Looks like it might be an attempt at a modern day extinction event. Well, Mt. Rainier is a pretty [worryingly deadly volcano](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decade_Volcanoes). I see Mr. Ross went all out with the Prussian Blue, there! "I will kill all of you one day, just wait...." Moved to Seattle while the clouds were still blocking the view of Mt Ranier. The clouds can block it from view for weeks at a time.  Friends kept saying that Ranier hasn't come out yet. My response was "how will I know when I see it?"
"Oh, you'll know." You don't realize how huge the thing is until you see it for yourself!
 so if Mt. Ranier is 60 miles away from Seattle, and a pyroclastic flow travels at 500 mph, and Bob, who is having lunch at Pike Place  stares at the beautiful exploding mountain for 30 seconds before running to his car which just happens to be right outside, how far can Bob get before he's suffocated by searing gas and choking ash as he watches the city disappear? Extra credit for what kin of car he's driving.  Brilliant photo!

If anyone is wondering, you get this type of effect by using a zoom lens (like 200 or 300mm) and zooming in, which makes images in the distance appear much bigger. Photos like [this one](http://i.imgur.com/rEIhvQt.jpg) are also created with this method. 

At least, that's what I've been told by photographer types.  I see your image and raise you [mine!](http://i.imgur.com/HTP3X9f.jpg)  [Different angle and close up.](http://i.imgur.com/aEz8plF.jpg) [From a plane](http://imgur.com/IMd60N4&amp;1TdqPgk) Mine from the top: http://imgur.com/VyDX6q1 Amazing - looks like two separate photos I wish id live in a city with that view. [Colorado Springs](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/originals/30/85/05/308505f0f5c62d560444e6f41f9954c1.jpg) has an awesome view of Pikes Peak, way cheaper city than Seattle, too.  Not that anyone should move here, we uhhhh, have tons of religious nutjobs everywhere.  Yeah... Also flooding. First true mountain I ever laid my eyes on was this one and it looked very much like this picture.  Very impressive and memorable. That looks really cool  
It makes me want to go there  
It's snowing on Mt. Rainier Other-worldly.  Great shot! When I flew to Seattle for the first time and saw this mountain it looked unreal. Was higher than the clouds and looked like it was going into space.  Climbed it in the early '80s, up the White River Canyon route. Camped at Interglacier. Great time. Drank a Rainier beer on the peak. [From the opposite side](http://i.imgur.com/rXgUtqf.jpg), 46 miles SSE from the top of Mt. Adams (12,276ft). Oh wow, I love it. I'll take mountain views over city or water views any day! That is some Mt. Olympus shit right there. Someone better go check that the Greek gods aren't actually up that mountain instead  Seattle is my favourite city in the world. Spent some time there last summer and always thought Mt Rainier looked painted onto skyline, like it wasn't really real. Man, I feel intimidated from the other side of the world. That's it! I'm going to Seattle. Seeing pictures of mountains like this one, where it appears to be sitting on top of the clouds, makes it much easier to see how some ancient Greeks would have had no problem believing Mount Olympus was the home of the Gods. ### "Fucking hipsters." -- Mt. Rainier This photo makes me want to go back to Seattle and sightsee. Oh man, I miss that damn volcano so much.. More like Mount Olympus... Fun fact:  Mt. Rainier is an [episodically active volcano](http://www.nps.gov/mora/faqs.htm) and will eventually erupt again. What makes it look so cool is that the mountain looks like it's floating.  In case anyone is reading the pile-on comments. 

Opposite end of the big ass mountain spectrum. Taking 2 miles closer from my window with a cellphone. https://instagram.com/p/mwMEVZDgkE/

Cellphones never do the mountain justice.  ITT: People calling the largest active volcano in the lower 48, "a mountain." IMO, Washington is the most beautiful state. I have lived here about 23 years and until last summer, I have not flown in or out of the state. It was not until I finally flew out and back, that I truly realized how beautiful Washington is with all its rivers, trees, forests, mountain ranges, etc. Super cool looks almost unreal - like olympus! Being from Seattle, that's not even that good of a view. And it is a volcano of doooooom Man the TI5 this year is going to even better than I thought lucky I got a ticket :D Whenever I see this I wonder where the hell that giant mountain was when I was in Seattle!   Oh look, the mountain's out today. It's called Tropical Island. You can spend your holidays there in tents or small holiday flats.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tropical_Islands_Resort Here's a really cool video of the park by Casey Neistat:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZFMa_kAANGE Casey makes the best videos 
 Is that how he makes his living, travel related stuff? If so, I want his lifestyle.  He said in a recent vlog that he doesn't monetize his YouTube videos, so not sure if he makes money off of vlogging. He has some travel videos but most of his videos are shot in NYC. He directs commercials and things for a living and he lectures. He seems like he has multiple revenue streams. Source: have gotten into his videos recently and watched a lot of them.  Yeah, he had a successful career making adverts where he made most of his money. In February of last year he decided to give it all up so that he could start a new company, what precisely that new company is Casey hasn't revealed yet (it's something very original and until they can get a patent for it, it's safer to not give away what it is). He does lectures occasionally and helps with projects at a New York university (the name of which escapes me).

Recently he was employed by Vogue to direct some stuff for the Met Gala. His wife also has a very successful Jewellery business, which probably brings in decent money for the two of them and their baby.

Here's a link to his YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/user/caseyneistat His videos are amazingly original and everyone should watch them. That and doing crunches.  I though he looked familiar.  He made the popular "Bike Lanes" video.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bzE-IMaegzQ I agree. His channel seems to be growing, but I'm not sure how he doesn't have a few million subs. Soon! Why are there cockroaches everywhere? From the site:

"**The Tropical Islands Rainforest** is a natural biotope. We maintain its equilibrium without the use of chemicals. To keep pests such as the banana moth under control, we use beneficial organisms such as periplaneta australiasiae  a type of cockroach that has nothing in common with our domestic cockroaches (you won't find any of them at Tropical Islands!). These useful insects also help keep the soil from becoming overly compacted."

Click "Further information" here:
https://www.tropical-islands.de/en/overnight-stay/tents/canvas-tents/ The food is what!? Shit Thanks for sharing You're welcome Hey you're not /u/PainMatrix  My bad I'm surrounded by phonies.   Sigh, kids these days.

  [Phonies?](http://www.entertainmentearth.com/images/AUTOIMAGES/HLP63600lg.jpg) My phretty phony!
 Found Holden Caulfield. that's cheap for a 19 hour pass https://www.tropical-islands.de/en/prices-booking/tickets-vouchers/ Adding this to the list of places to visit... :) You can stay overnight without booking a tent or a flat, too. You can sleep on the beach chairs(or whatever they're called, they're certainly unchair-ish) &gt; unchair-ish

Oh, you're definitely German.  Unstuhlig  [deleted] Do they open the hangar doors when the weather is nice? Nah, only when your mom stops by. FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF Thats a lot of respect A T [Oh snap!](http://i.imgur.com/VQLGJOL.gif) http://i.imgur.com/tnDBMmF.gif No. It has a tropical climate, and the weather is never *that* nice in Germany. Glad they went with "Tropical Island" and not "Hindenburg Crypt". "Old" in the case of this Hangar means about a decade old. Or Fuhrer's Bunker The Final Solution... for family fun! [That's a BINGO!](http://gifrific.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/Christoph-Waltz-Dancing-in-Chair-Inglourious-Basterds.gif) Yah just say Bingo.  Just to play it safe I'm not taking the train or using the showers. It'z sooo humongous big. It was one of the most ambitious projects in East Germany 15-something years ago. I don't know the details because i wasn't old enough back then, but my mom told me that my grandfather invested stock into them before the whole thing crashed. There was this corporation called CargoLifter that wanted to build huuge airships. But stuff happened and a few years later the only thing  left was this huge hall, which is the biggest free carrying hall in the world (aka a hall without any supportive collums). 

The "Tropical Island" project was basically an attempt to rescucitate the money formerly invested to build the hangar and so it was heavily funded, though i think that it started making a profit a few years ago. It really is an insane thing to visit.  Bought for 20% of the constructing price, holy fuck Yeah this thing was a huge speedbump in the eastern economy. They went under after 9/11/01. In 2002 Boeing announced that Boeing and CargoLifter currently were taking the first steps to put together their team. The contract follows a Letter of Intent signed by the two companies in May 2002. 

Form the old Cargo Lifter AG website I have this:

CargoLifter AG, based south of Berlin in Germany, is developing lighter-than-air systems for logistics and other applications. Listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange (WKN: 540 261, symbol CLA), CargoLifter AG has developed a unique capability to research, design, develop and produce airships and other lighter-than-air vehicles. The company's first product, the CL75 balloon-based system, has been in prototype flight test since October 2001. It will be capable of carrying an 86-short-ton-payload in either a crane configuration or as a towed vehicle. CargoLifter is also pursuing the CL160 airship, which is capable of carrying outsized and heavy goods over long distances. CargoLifter is cooperating with a number of partners and potential users to further define and develop both markets and products.

On 07 June 2002 the company announced insolvency, and liquidation proceedings began the following month. The fate of parts of the 300 million euros in shareholder funds from over 70,000 investors is still unclear. In June 2003, the company's facilities were sold off for less than 20% of the construction costs. The airship hangar was used in a 'tropical paradise'-themed vacation resort called Tropical Islands, which opened in 2004.

Today, the CL CargoLifter GmbH &amp; Co. KG company, founded by former Cargolifter AG shareholders, still seeks to sell the lighter-than-air technology and is exploring the construction of smaller airships. [Humangus beeg](https://youtu.be/O-FvRyQOlbc)  Even the greatest minds train themselves in navet. This guy is right. b habby It's not a water park without a lazy river! Not as popular in Germany.  They much prefer the efficient and productive river. &gt; The Efficient and Productive River isn't too popular with the tourists sir. It appears as though they don't enjoy the portion spent on the Volkswagen assembly line. It's German. It's an efficiency river now. Any good? Doesn't look like it has many slip n' slides etc.  I stayed there overnight and I had an amazing time!
I think it depends on how you spend your time/who you're with. I just drank a lot (you can bring alcohol, just no glass bottles) and stayed up all night at the "beach" - followed by delicious buffet in the morning. They tried to have organized activities during the daytime too!

Edit: I don't know if it makes a difference being from Canada, with this being the closest thing to a tropical island I've ever experienced.... I think it probably makes a difference. Like the difference between a fleshlight and fucking a model.  I went there a few years ago now. They had some cool slides (one I remember was pitch black and pretty scary because you could barely breathe from travelling so fast and water rushing in your face). Just like the one in the Guantanamo Bay Resort! I was there for one day. Personally I hated it. Very expensive, you need to pay for the slides extra, you aren't allowed to bring own food (okay I can understand this), I felt very uncomfortable all the time. Not my definition of a good time. After 3 hours I've also seen everything, don't understand why someone wants to stay there any longer. [Definition of a good time](http://i.imgur.com/ss90VWq.jpg) as a german: i have no idea why my STEAM account says i have 158 hours of Farming Simulator 2015 logged.. it just keeps happening.

EDIT 161 hours - WHAT? WHEN? A former classmate of mine torrented the game (well, an older version) just to see how shitty it is. He then bought a copy of it for his tablet, so he could play in school during the break or uninteresting classes. Zere wasn't enough wrk to do Huh, I've seen this meme before and assumed it was just a joke, but amazon.de showed me it's not. German gameshops man...

http://i.imgur.com/yZmOP.jpg

http://i.imgur.com/D54G7bD.jpg

http://i.imgur.com/ghIO8A8.jpg Here is the website. 
https://www.tropical-islands.de/en/

Looks super cool! Where are the huge slides?! The Picture was taken on top of them https://i.imgur.com/XS4XnzI.jpg Sadly, with the size of the hanger, I expected bigger they're still among the biggest in Europe God bless America. A land where water parks don't just mean two masses of water divided by a park. A land where you can eat funnel cake till your heart no longer has the blood flow to desire, then wade in a lazy river splashing at the lifeguards as you float by.  &gt;wade in a lazy river splashing at the lifeguards as you float by.

As a former water park lifeguard, I hope you get mauled by a bear. As a former water park lifeguard in AZ, thanks for splashing us.  [A waterbear?](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/0/08/Waterbear.jpg) What? I am a former lifeguard too and I loved being splashed. It kept me cool.  It's the thing I envy you for most.  As a Brit that watched many films from the late 80s/early 90s - most films had a water park montage at one point.  We could only DREAM of what you have.  [THIS](http://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/660/media/images/74816000/jpg/_74816464_74816463.jpg) used to be our treat!  "Thanks Mum - it's not a rectangle!!"
 Trade you for healthcare? Same country where people use t-shirts in pools. I mean, if I'm in a pool with jabba the hutt I'd rather not see him in bikinis, thanks. Rather not be in a pool with Jabba Then buy one, because otherwise there is no escaping jabbas. I assure you its for your own good. Wow, really? I love Europe but you guys aren't killing it on the thrills. [This](http://imgur.com/ptdBz9u) is just my local Six Flags and [here](http://imgur.com/uQziVom) is a crazy indoor one in Canada. North America definitely takes the prize on this one.  Updated for the West Edmonton Mall reference.   Lived in Edmonton for two years.   When people would visit us in the winter,  we'd take them to the mall and the water park.  Not much else to do after that.  That purple slide that goes down, and then flips a loopty loop looks effin nuts! That slide is even more nuts for the beginning. They make you stand in this little pod thing and then this countdown starts and then the floor just drops out from under you. The feeling of just suddenly dropping is pretty intense. Despite being one of the coolest rides it always has the shortest line because people are scared to go on it haha. Full disclosure: I have never been there, I just looked up the best waterparks in North America and it was a top result. Looks awesome though!! Would love to check it out someday if I ever find myself in Edmonton!  [Well....I guess it's kinda big] (https://deadhomersociety.files.wordpress.com/2010/05/bartvs-australia1.png) Meh, they're pretty average for Europe. There are multiple taller and longer slides here. sweet, but needs more!!! I love tube rides :| this  [video] (https://youtu.be/ZFMa_kAANGE)  shows a look inside. huh, thought they were mates roughly the same age until he took his sunglasses off I thought they were mates until it ended, and it said father and son. He had his kid when he was a teen. Seventeen to be exact Casey Neistat is my favorite youtuber. He makes incredible daily vlogs now He motivates me to work harder every day. I love that guy! Is he a motivational speaker or is he rich/successful or something? Trying to figure out the meaning behind your motivation. He had his own HBO show. He has done commercials for Nike, J-Crew, Mercedes Benz, and More. He has made a ton of videos on Youtube, some of which have gone viral. He works with the New York Times. People really like his Vlogs. He has spoken at Ted-X and has a bunch of other interviews on Youtube. I've been watching his videos for years. He mostly just makes you want to be a better person by pointing out shit that annoys him or by fixing problems he has with creative solutions. He puts a lot of effort into everything he does. Especially the vlog he just started. 

He did a TED talk once, and a few other speaking events, but mostly he's just a videographer who recently started a new company.  Both, and primarily a filmmaker. Though apparently he has a new business now that he can't tell people about yet due to patent law Best motivator I've ever watched And you're a ceo! I always start my days off watching his vlogs [This](https://vimeo.com/61845373) video gives a better view. MEGA. ULTRA. WOW.

It was like a train wreck. I just couldn't look away. Typical Deichkind video behaviour 1000% YES!

I was kinda thrown off around 2:00 when it told me to touch myself. I don't know German so I wasn't sure what direction the video was going to take. It turned out great. that was amazing The amazing part for me, was that his nipples have shadows... I'll never be the same again.  Anytime someone posts about this waterpark I look to make sure someone has done the do diligence of posting this video.  Well done. I always look for any excuse to post this. Upvote for Deichkind. Das ist fr big girls! I'm speechless  This music video contains a lot of stuff and is worth watching. Holy crap, I know it's satire, but they just ruined Yo Gabba Gabba for ~~me~~ my kids. I'm sad I will never be able to see that for the first time again. That was the craziest video Subliminal messaging at its finest: http://imgur.com/Wu3HSEn


And that's not to mention this http://imgur.com/ykehVCb

Keep watching, it gets progressively more amazing/awful Is it really subliminal messaging when it's a joke? Very subliminal, yes. YES. NEISTAT Being there alone at 2:00am would be too eerie for me. You are never alone there, it's usually pretty crowded, even at night. Thanks for posting the *real* source.

Casey Neistat is a seriously cool guy. His drive is so motivating. Man I was just about to link that video! That'd make a great BF4 map [BF4 maps in real life](http://imgur.com/gallery/cEF7Y) Or the [Japanese version](http://image.lang-8.com/w0_h0/571236bc463c136604fac8cee2ef56c2870877ad.jpg) for ultimate easy K/D ratio. &gt; Japanese

My younger lifeguard self is sweating in fear. It's not like they can drown; hell, 20% probably aren't even touching water. There's no water, just a few litres of sweat.   Oh why, why would anyone suffer through that... I think that's actually China. Most people in Japan aren't far from the ocean.

Also the water doesn't look very cool..... &gt;Or the [Japanese version](http://image.lang-8.com/w0_h0/571236bc463c136604fac8cee2ef56c2870877ad.jpg) for ultimate easy K/D ratio.

Fixed the link for you

 Fixed it myself and now you look like a crazy person! Muhaha. Oh the humidity! I hope this comment doesn't get mist. We moist dew something to prevent that.  Water you talking about? It's already got a bunch of up votes.  These puns aren't great, merely aqueduct. Just saw on the news a week ago that City of Houston just sent a committee to check this out and see if something similar could be done with the Astrodome.

[Edit: Link to story](http://abc13.com/society/german-indoor-park-could-be-vision-for-future-astrodome/689177/) Close Waterworld.  

Close Astroworld.  

Close Astrodome.  

Turn Astrodome into Waterworld? I fuckin miss Astroworld.. We're getting [Grand Texas Theme Park](http://grandtx.com/), eventually...

&gt;Prepare to be transported back in time to the early days of Texas, when it was a vast frontier full of intrigue &amp; excitement, as you enter the gates of Grand Texas Theme Park!

It'll be just like AstroWorld except gang members will be wearing cowboy shirts instead of Looney Tunes emblazoned jean jackets.

"Watch out kids, the Tweety Bird Gang is about to clash with the Yosemite Sam Clan at the Ultra Twister." Oh hell yeah can we get the ball rolling on that?  Judge Emmett is determined to have the dome be his legacy project. Too bad they tore down Astro world.  Would have been a nice compliment.  Sadly there seems to be little appetite to do anything with the Dome. Several proposals made over the past few years have been voted down, and Harris County taxpayers have indicated no willingness whatsoever to spend any public money on any project. A lot of people seem to think that the most responsible thing to do would be to tear the Dome down and replace it with a parking lot.

Let that sink in for a minute: The popular sentiment is that, in the interest of fiscal responsibility, a historic building, the first domed stadium in the world, a feat of engineering, and a Houston landmark, would better serve as a parking lot. Another parking lot in a city of parking lots. A parking lot is what Astroworld became.

The status of the park is, since no public funds will be spent, in limbo until the committee can determine whether private funding is feasible for the project. I'm definitely not opposed to private funding. The last privately-funded park in the Houston area was, to my knowledge, Discovery Green, which is a really charming little park downtown that has seen a lot of use for family events, culture, exercise, and even ice skating. 

If private money can replicate that type of success on the scale of the Astrodome I'm all for it.

And, on an emotional level, having a huge indoor park would just be awesome. If you've been inside the Dome you know how enormous the space is. It would be a destination for tourism and it would bring a lot of character to the city. It would even be an opportunity for the zillion energy companies in the area to showcase their green technologies. It could be a space for exercise, for families, for relaxation, for concerts, films, art, whatever.

Houston doesn't need another parking lot. This is a city that tears everything down, and as a result we have a zillion square miles of concrete and no character. I really hope we can decide to do something good with the Astrodome. It would be a shame to lose 50 years of history. Would the place be large enough to have its own weather? I didn't see any mention of it in the Wikipedia article. I was thinking about the Wikipedia article that says weather forms in the [Vehicle Assembly Building](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vehicle_Assembly_Building) that's used by NASA.

edit: Added 'have' to the first sentence. I have no idea why you're being downvoted - it's a completely legitimate question.

To your NASA VAB reference:  When I was 13 back in 1976 (*fuck I'm old!*) my family went to KSC and part of the tour included the VAB.  The Apollo/Skylab missions were over and the Viking landers had just given us our first surface look at Mars, so the VAB wasn't really "in use".  The tour guide told us that sometimes it could actually rain INSIDE the building, which blew my mind.  

I recall seeing a transporter-crawler "parked" outside and seeing huge vultures circling just above it... they were almost just black dots.  There were height markings on the side of the gantry and as I recall the one furthest up said "450".  Since the Saturn V was 363 feet tall (or so) I'm guessing the full crawler + gantry was ~450 feet tall.

Having grown up during the space race, being thrilled by the agonizingly slow reveal of the Viking picutures, and witnessing the early days of the Shuttle program, my love of all things NASA was reinforced early on.  I recall being about ten or eleven years old and writing letters to them (including my "ideas" for spacecraft LOL), and eventually getting replies often including really cool, nice quality  8"x11" prints of various things. It's true! I went there too, and there were workers wearing ponchos inside the building! If you looked up, there were clouds gathering around the tip of the ship. Pretty amazing. Holy shit that gave me a freedom boner. It kind of has its own weather. It's so humid inside that sometimes water just drips from ceiling. I spend night there and had to move around all night because water dripped on my head all the time.. But it was really nice there There's not much water for a water park. European-sized water park, not China-sized water park. I feel like it's missing out on the opportunity to have a ridiculously tall water slide. the picture was  taken from the top of the water slides There is one. The photo was taken on it. I was there and it is quite boring. The sauna ist pretty awesome and the animals living there, but the "water park" sucks. This picture instantly reminded me of [this](http://25.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_m72mmkBr4z1qz7ejco1_1280.jpg) That's the finale of Interstellar, right? Similar yeah. The idea of a ring world or ring habitat is creating a giant spinning ring which creates gravity on the outer edge of the ring.

Which means the structures and living space is basically in the edge of the ring, if you look up you see the living space on the other side of the ring in the distance.

A lot of space habitats were painted in the seventies, riding on a wave of sixties space race optimism. One day my descendants will live on one of these.   Houston [recently sent leaders to this park](http://www.khou.com/story/news/features/2015/05/05/county-leaders-to-return-from-germany-begin-work-on-astrodomes-future/26955091/) to explore this idea for revamping the Astrodome. 

The [Astrodome](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Astrodome) is the first domed stadium, and has been sitting unused for about a decade. 

I personally think this is a great idea. Houston is a huge metro area (4th most populous in the country) but lacks a world-class amusement or water park since Six Flags closed. And the summers here can be unbearable, so going indoors is a great idea. Now who's paying for it? That'll be an issue of course. &gt;Now who's paying for it?

The Tax payers will be left to foot the bill ($300M) since no investors have showed any interest.

The county commissioners likely won't let it pass on to the ballot unless there is some backing so the tax payers aren't burdened.



 This is not an *old* airship hangar. The building was finished in November 2001. It belonged to a company called CargoLifter that wanted to build freight airships but went bankrupt before any airship was built. They basically only built the hangar and a few hot air balloons for testing.  
  
After that the hangar was re purposed as this waterpark.  
  
Edit: *Old* airship hangars looked like [this](http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luftschiffhalle#/media/File:Luftschiffhalle-Biesdorf.jpg) (1911)  
  
Edit 2: changed emphasize from 'not' to 'old' to prevent further confusion They went bankrupt because they could not solve basic technical problems when using airships to carry huge weight. The snack bar serves Hindenburgers. Do they explode? No, but business is on fire! I wonder how many sunbenches are reserved with towels. Most of them when I was there. [What, you've never seen this video?](https://vimeo.com/61845373) The world isn't ready Oh...oh God. Oh God, what? What was that? 

Was that the 80s in Germany? What's going on? Nah, it's just an eighties-style music video by a current German band. The song is from 2006. No thats just the style of the video. The group Deichkind always has been pretty weird in things like costumes and videos. "MEGA ULTRA WOW"  
"100% ALIVE" I'm so confused as to why everything in the video is English Because in non-English speaking countries, English words are often used for marketing purposes, to make stuff sound super cool. So you find random English words like "Power", "Sale" or "Business" everywhere. Sometimes it's quite hilarious, like when a German company wanted to sell those backpacks with single straps and chose the cool sounding name "body bag" for them, or when during the World Cup 2006 German cities put up big screens on public squares for people to watch the games, and called it "Public viewings". Or the Payback card.... I've never thought about the name that way... awesome. Is this the place from that Deichkind video?


[Edit: Looks like it](https://vimeo.com/61845373) This hangar was actually built in 1998, and has nothing to do with the nazis or hindenburg. it was built for an airship project called Cargolifter, which would have been used to transport extremely heavy things into and out of berlin. Before they built the zeppelin they noticed that this could not work, because as soon as the cargo would have been released, the airships high bouyancy ( to lift the several-ton Cargo) would have catapulted the ship up. But the hangar was built anyway. I cannot recommend the park in it, its horrible because there is no sky, and very non-tropical lighting That middle part could be turned into lazy river.  The first thing I thought is why the hell do they have a walking path exactly where the lazy river should be. That place is basically 2 big swimming pools. 710,000 square feet, including the world's largest indoor rainforest; a circus style show; a daily parade and other activies; a mini golf course; a 200 meter long pool; a lagoon with waterfall, a romantic grotto, water slides, flow channel, and whirlpools; a water slide tower with four slides the tallest of which is 89 feet tall; 22 distinct overnight accommodation options including hotels, cabins and tents; a 43,000 square foot kids area with bumper boats, mini cars, softball cages and trampolines; tons of bars, restaurants, and lounges; various Temple replicas; shopping; various themed saunas and steam baths; spring pool; and motherfucking indoor hot air balloon rides. 

Seriously... check it out. The place is pretty fucking impressive. 

* [Map of attractions](https://www.tropical-islands.de/en/karte/#attractions:tropicalvillage)

* [Promo Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W3xpRuq_U1A) Not really old. It was built in 2000.
http://www.clmap.com/en/projekte/projektmanagement/5.html Is this the one Casey Neistat went to? Instantly reminded of a cringey video of a mother scolding her son for not coming along with the family to tropical island (also involves discussion about a tiger plush and a certain fetish). Unfortunately I forgot how to find it. This is where they filmed the Truman Show.

*To avoid future comments, I wasn't being serious.. That is aweseome. One of the best re-purposing I've ever seen. That hanger is very very new, the company that built it just went instantly bankrupt and now it is a water park. The title is misleading as it is not a hanger that was ever really used for airships. Cool video off it https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZFMa_kAANGE Reminds me of the water park in Ouran Host Club I imagine this is where the only parks and forest will be in the future, artificially grown in large hangars. Nice ~~water~~...park I can't for the life of me understand why Schwimmbads haven't spread across America.  If they're like this they are called indoor pools and we have them everywhere. When the weather becomes shit it isn't hard to take a vacation to somewhere warm. In order for something like this to work in America it would require the addition of at least one tidal/wave pool and several waterslides.  Most Schwimmbder have them. They're not really only for swimming, but for general recreation. Slides, tidal pools, saunas, tanning beds, a gym, rafts, an area for small children, a restaurant and a regular swimming pool for sport are all pretty much expected from a good Schwimmbad. Many have an outdoor area that is at least partially open the whole year (swimming in 30C warm water is awesome when it is snowing). During the summer there is also beach volleyball and the like.

Fuck, I now want to go to a Schwimmbad... There are no swimming pools in America? I think he/she means what we call a swimming hall, where you can go and swimm with others.  So, like, a public pool? Yea, but inside. Do they have that in the U.S.?  They definitely exist, although outdoor pools are far more common. Most community centers do, there are also indoor water parks Yes, although they generally aren't only places to swim.  Usually they're part of a community recreation center that would have a gym, classes for various hobbies, programs for children, etc.  When I was young I studied Tae Kwon Do at my local Rec. center.  Where I live now the community center has a rock climbing wall, pre-kindergarten programs, and classes on everything from knitting to foreign languages.  The pools are enormous and they frequently host swim meets/competitions.  That sounds very cool.
Never been in the U.S, so I don't know these things. They exist, but most public pools are outside. most YMCA branches have an indoor pool though.  There are no public swimming pools in America? Indoor community pools are pretty common here. Not like in Germany.  Just about every small town I've been to in Germany has a decent schwimmbad, and the ones in bigger cities were nothing short of incredible.  You just don't find stuff like that over here.

Edit:

[Kristall Palm Beach](http://www.palm-beach.de/) in Nrnberg was one of my favorite spots when I was stationed in Germany.  For around $20 ($10 for kids), you can spend all day in their mineral baths, wave pool, water slides, saunas, indoor "sun" field, hot tubs........ that place is awesome. &gt;Just about every small town I've been to in Germany has a decent schwimmbad,

Just an FYI: Unfortunately more and more of those public Schwimmbads have to close down, since energy costs skyrocketed in the last years, and especially the small towns can't afford them anymore (because, on average, your small german municipality is broke as fuck). We have Sinbad instead, and I'll be damned before I let you or anyone else tell me he's not good enough. 

P.S. That hangar is enormous---I wonder if we could double the size of it and create a legit Truman show type of thing... I often find myself making the same facial expression as the subject that im drawing. [Relevant](http://i49.photobucket.com/albums/f278/katietiedrich/comic83.jpg) I do this when I'm feeding my kid. [Mom, you're making faces again.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1tqiWP9Wghc&amp;hd=1) Thank you.  I really thought I was the only one.  It's the weirdest feeling, like you're not in control of your own face. Exactly. Tell my wife to stop making fun of me when I feed our kids, I can't control it.  I do this when I'm imagining something I've done previously, like if I just waved at someone and start thinking about waving, I have to focus to keep myself from waving at empty air (I may have done this today after waving at someone while walking my dog.) Ahhhhh-oomph

Ahhhhh-oomph 

Ahhhhh-oomph. 



I caught myself doing that. Making the same faces. I think it's some weird ass evolutionary thing.  ooh, what if kids with parents who do this tend to chew their food more? You're showing the child how to chew, the child mirrors this. I mean I figured that after awhile but the weirdest part was that *I wasn't doing it intentionally*. 

Like I just started doing that while feeding my son without even thinking about it. It's weird to catch yourself doing something like that. I do the same face when I'm watching porn.  hardly anything worse than seeing yourself in a mirror in these moments. Surest way to go flat. Anyone else thinking of The Incredibles? [You mean like this?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PvElQvrx7ns) Like the Incredibles!
 Ahaha how did I miss this one? I love awkward zombie! It's a really old one, it was one of the first ones I saw Oh hey, just realized I know you from /r/pokemon Honestly, it's hard to not realize who he is Somewhere at Dreamworks... http://i.imgur.com/LuYTe.jpg So this must be how DreamWorks animators look at themselves in the mirror. How *YOU* doing. Pixar has it's animation style and DreamWorks has theirs. I don't see people's problems with it, they both make beautiful animations. it's a haha I know, but some people legitimately rip on DreamWorks for it. I don't mind Dreamworks' animation. It's their stories that lack imagination that I find terrible.  They made How to Train Your Dragon, that was pretty good. They have done some decent movies. Even Antz wasn't so bad, but when you compare quality of their stories to Pixar, it's pretty obvious which studio has put more effort into telling great stories. I thought Kung Fu Panda was pretty great.  Just the ability to create an image on a page is way beyond me. The ability to create a human emotion on a page draws on all the skills that are foreign to me. Seeing these pictures makes me marvel at the human brain.  I don't get why people write off entire experiences. If a six year old told you "creating an image on a page is way beyond me" you would think it was absurd. What the fuck kid, grab a crayon and mash it on the thing. You're fucking six years old.

But somehow, people cross a line at some point and they're like "NOW, now I must never mash another crayon on a page again, for I AM NOT AN ARTISTIC TYPE!"

Like, what makes you guys decide that? What's so horrible about drawing a purple flower with a doggie now that you've passed adolescence? Because honestly, that's all the "artistic types" are doing in their rooms. Some bullshit with dogs and flowers and they're just fucking around and it's mostly garbage. It's just that if you try to make some bullshit every night, you eventually fuck up and make something compelling. &gt;But somehow, people cross a line at some point

that's just getting enough experience at sucking at drawing even in the face of trying many times. what have you learned you are you not good at? No, I disagree. Drawing is a learned skill, and giving up and/or lacking perseverance is exactly the thing that prevents ever improving. Developing drawing skill is almost 90% messing up, but from those mistakes, you learn. As an artist myself, it was vital to learn that failure is not something to be afraid of, rather embraced and accepted. Yeah, I really feel that people who are "so talented" are just people who enjoyed drawing and messing around as kids and just kept drawing. They did it because they liked it, and thus drew all the time and continuously got better. And if you really start studying it you can really improve, but drawing a lot is the key to becoming good at it. People who don't think they can draw don't draw, so they "can't draw."

I'm not a pro by any means but I paint and people like to say "you're so talented," but I always think to myself that it's not so much talent but practice.. all throughout school I doodled on the sides of my homework/notes. I was always doodling. That's tons of practice and I think that's what it really boils down to. When you look at 6 year olds you don't usually see "super talented" 6 year olds, but some will enjoy it more than most and keep drawing as a hobby throughout their lives and thus improve. &gt; Drawing is a learned skill

like btw pretty much *every* skill.

(but that also doesn't mean that others don't have more talent for it. for example, there are people that have the proverbial "two left hands". of course they can still be into home improvement, but it's likely they won't get the same results as somehow who is more of a "handy" person) Hey if you want to draw, you should learn. People like to think it's a talent thing, and maybe that's part of it, but I picked it up this year and I'm already getting kind of decent. There's no mystery to it, it's just practice like everything else. It's a really satisfying skill to learn. Grab a book or a YouTube video or take a class and just dig in! biggest issue for myself with drawing is more or less

what should I draw? 

I know it doesn't really matter while you're practicing but I just can't seem to get past the what to draw part of things, times I do end up thinking of something it ends up sucking so I end up going back to not drawing for a while lol Just draw a hot chick and keep at it until you can successfully jerk off to it. Knowing the average male, you may be setting the bar a bit low. Can confirm, I was drawing hot chicks when I was 13. But I'm a gay so by following your plan I will never succeed at art :c The opposite my friend. When you can succesfully jerk of to a drawn girl as a homosexual male, you must have some real fucking talent. Draw what you love. The worst trap for people to fall in to when learning to draw for the first time is to immediately go in for textbook anatomy and poses. It is possibly the most draining and demoralising thing to do when you are just beginning. The trick is to get a love for drawing, then moving on to refining it. 

I began drawing when I was a kid and I started by drawing video game characters I loved. I spent hours doing it and I remember them looking quite good. (I dread to think what they actually looked like.) That was enough for me to continue doing it right up to this day. However art lessons in school were almost enough to completely defeat me, which is why I never chose art as a subject once I chose my GCSE subjects. I remember spending weeks having to draw my shoe. It made me want to kill myself. I wanted to draw people, environments, hell even abstract art would have been great. Instead, I was drawing my school shoe, a symbol of creative shackles for weeks and weeks. I fucking hated school.

Drawing is about having fun and the best way to do that is to draw what you feel like drawing. Allow yourself to make mistakes, as an artist, you will make them constantly. Know that even the very best artists will often make mistakes that make them glare at a page hating what they see in front of them. You aren't being judged on your art, it's just you. If you draw something that looks hideous, it doesn't matter, it's all practice. Just remember to draw what you enjoy. The desire to practice anatomy, perspective, form and lighting will come naturally once you become more conformable with drawing. &gt;Draw what you love. The worst trap for people to fall in to when learning to draw for the first time is to immediately go in for textbook anatomy and poses.

Glad I read the comments. No wonder every day I struggle to even just put my sketchbook in front of me. 
I don't go to art classes but I bought a bunch of master studies and anatomy books. No doubt they help you out but man, they make you numb lol.
Thanks for reminding me. Start off using [charcoal and gum eraser](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/1/1f/Kneaded_eraser.JPG), you can really easily correct mistakes and it makes shading SO much easier

It's also really cool because the picture kinda looks like shit until you pick up that gum eraser and start adding highlights, then the whole picture jumps off the page!

I've always considered myself an atrocious drawer, whenever I tried with pencil I always ended up rage quitting.... which is why I took up photography instead.

Then I saw someone else with charcoal/eraser and decided to give it a try myself.

[Here are my very first drawings ever](http://i.imgur.com/1MgilBW.jpg)

[Here are the second ones I did the next day](http://i.imgur.com/QtryFQl.jpg)

The first lot was stuff in front of me, the second lot was random stuff I just googled for and directly copied (easier than drawing stuff in real life for sure!)

I know they aren't particularly good, but I am just illustrating how great charcoal is to learn with! I highly recommend it, and it's really cheap too! Try it! Draw dicks and oysters I'd love to see a comic made out of dicks and oysters. Draw faces The problem doesn't come from actual drawing. That can be taught. 
My brain can't think of an image and then create the image. I just can't do it.  My brain can't do 3D translations. Those [tests](http://www.queendom.com/tests/access_page/index.htm?idRegTest=1118) where you have to do 3d manipulations of 2d images are impossible to me. Literally impossible. I have plenty of other talents possibly in place of those skills so I'm not complaining. I'm just remarking that some skills are completely baffling to me, and 3d -&gt; 2d translations are one of those things. after all, the brain is just neurons and every human's brain is carved up differently.  I waste all that time on the test and the results were delivered in one word. Average  12 years of art or whatever it was at school and I was never told about drawing from your arm rather than your hands. Someone told me about that later in life and suddenly I'm a great drawer! Drawing, for the most part, is a technical skill that you can learn and refine through practice. That's all you really need. It's not a talent that you have to be born with.

Talent isn't as important as people tend to make it out to be, you might not be the next Micheal Angelo or Da Vinci, but honestly you don't need to be *great* to be an artist. Hell you really don't even need to be great at drawing to make a living off of it. Look at Rob Liefeld. I think it's fair to say that this kind of animation is the hardest most complex form of art known to man. Not only do you have to be able to draw extremely well, you have to know anatomy, proportion, fore shortening, acting, staging, film making, humour, observation... And more. Everything has to be absolutely on point. Oh, and you had to work fast as well.  Me too, sharp tits. Me too.  It's just straight lines, angles, and parabolas i have never been able to control a pencil very well. i have terrible handwriting, and i can't write very nicely even if i write slowly. even stick figures i draw turn out laughable. i think this illustrates my original thought well. these things must come naturally to you. they do not to us all.  I'd say it isn't coming natural to certain people, as it is more, some people have the fundamentals down better than others. Like if you're taught the basics of math poorly, you'll struggle through your education with math because of the bad start. That makes me think that perhaps these guys are better at interpreting facial queues than others, since they're so attuned to drawing them maybe they would also be more likely to recognize them. /r/artfundamentals
 same. it's funny the pieces we can see on this post do resemble their creator  I catch myself making the face of any emoticon I use. :)  Oh, I actually can't even send an emoticon that doesn't resemble what I'm feeling at the moment. So sending a :D when I'm down makes me cringe, it's like breaking some barrier in my head. I send smiley faces when I am not smiling. 
Because I am a gosh danged *master of deception!* Me too My grandfather is the 4th one down! His name, Carlo Vinci!

Edit: Here's his bio. 
http://animationresources.org/biography-carlo-vinci-2/ Cool! So I'm assuming you saw the Flintstones and was forced to like it  haha  haha haha haha haha did you put your artistic genetics to good use? Yes. But you wouldn't like him when he's drawing by hand ;) This wasn't lost in 3-D. All the animators around me are constantly acting their clips out. Whether its jumping on and off their desk or using the face camera on their phone to see the ridiculous expressions they're making.  True. As a 3D/2D animator I still use the same principles of animation for both mediums, they're just different tools. I personally love both.  heh, this isn't the comment I was expecting to see. Most of the time it's "boo hoo, 3D has lost the personal magic" but it's great to see someone get that it hasn't and never had.

These old dudes are the ideal though. Ward Kimball is my HERO. Well i mean every pixar movie in the extras they always go on about how animators would often act out the part they are animating or in the case of kids follow little kids around to watch how they move and act.  Very cool, names for these guys? After a bunch of digging, I found them all. Linked each to my sources.

---

1- [Ward Kimball](https://www.google.com/search?tbs=sbi:AMhZZiuN7egFFhX-ezvrxOIOG2sK0tpXI21OuzdzEqzHjhD15CBonldviP4qXq6ibIwujUYSEkesAbQ_1JArbFO9m-pErrTzyPjK4OahdvVW2QdXcj0L3hI2FNSBorErfPaqhOpHXmJGqeIAEoRp3bzAznScg-D50jekUu5v2RxyyET4NF1PQk85Uux5pMTn6GQM4HVstPic7C4yAG1QKqpfC8BhSXKHphg6jGsDE_19nqOTHZ_1tapmG_14ResbjrW2XmCxO4rAlE6x6nTkvLlPBt5MmUC4iUNmLM4Y1bfQklRDpdNPzb2vsSckxD9_1md3dDVuOE7Zjd_1swN4dw85xQ1JEnq-PEoTsun34SH8iaMFdTJnb2M-qTLJXTs4pjriROdkAqZG_12Gx6D5V6E22zxDkcVgFNSzcWTB1QgO2ZQk0Jd9WxrgyM4a8BdOxbM96yXPST015_1knThBid-d1wqEYP5u_15pDULb-MYGSTV81DxGveaoqxGc55lvXQvfoy23gnQGakY7bNYK_1B6wSF60NCyCyoVS-Lv1RHsJCJgxYYM_1QSXd1FD5125SCSGcpGAPdorNR0_1S2LdExiuH2eJkLlhL5T3WEsH8aukPZ6p8dxIdb_17DTFwOFhrZE3tizgT_1sL2C4uC3GAyybTS8jCtPG4D7XE1yCba4_10WUbP_1D-zqH-wkMP4kaso10WCHT-GGY5oK6lgIifjdDifPBVSaC-BwLFMmCgwN6XShRc6QnWRHUOLvMGNwyI83zICeVxm33ixRb0aLxmux9BEgJKq2Q46zNgUqmQQyqfsjDjOyyqNFHwU3q4OxnX5t7pMV9xnTN0-XoqyrISE3tryT1h7wibJVp0FgqJ2GwfQIBe3wF8vpRJRE7CEJG9DZxuEi7jwYSNwV6AsdOQcXphICfluS7rePlQuNunqASL6cDwMamKX5YMMxL0O0FfHOyvDuDrWlft2F4lLV5JF6Zo0Wexe-LFr6F85VKMriL90s1Rm168y4wXKLAamTWy1XDW2uauP9OM95RDid2HeqpHGb2Yd6gbuVk91N5iRVXKr3DO3dufDBTLJHaiHhKOw0EFBi-3e_1-lgsjcMJiT837ZvIiYbaLERNjU4u83vDwFrDtLXpMhg6sM6H1kH_1ZhPxrKBynqVyZG604L-kxpfyoljqH4L2xeFyK1yWuJdetbss1yrciv-n4RduBMfC_1Be9nxQDaak1PH0RLFC-hPDEG6t0K2yFOVIma4QBieni2n98plItiW5d9f1CKaVQDV1UxHaG_1tZtGrIqdB9iFpYq1g4oARMZo3oB4LNOmLgwKWNvxZafBp1rOGpTgU3d-eG82jflf-z4gtNyLm4EZUMgMp0Q2-s9NyWL5P2u4B6qyTjqhHNF_1Ud2D_1un9EUigwYcSC7-3vu1my_1uj2r4Sq3zjhy8Y4VY4lyUrRfE-PeKGohcf7Eudi619cSD3dcb5ac6Y)

2- [Ollie Johnson](http://www.reddit.com/r/movies/comments/2ov0f6/disney_animators_study_their_reflections_to_draw/cmrbxle)

3- [Woolie Reitherman](http://www.cartoonbrew.com/animators/animators-and-mirrors-106260.html)

4- [Carlo Vinci](http://www.cartoonbrew.com/animators/animators-and-mirrors-106260.html)

5- [Woolie Reitherman](http://www.reddit.com/r/movies/comments/2ov0f6/disney_animators_study_their_reflections_to_draw/cmrbxle)

6- [Ollie Johnston](http://www.cartoonbrew.com/animators/animators-and-mirrors-106260.html)

7- [Norm Ferguson](http://www.cartoonbrew.com/animators/animators-and-mirrors-106260.html)

8- [Fred Moore](http://www.cartoonbrew.com/animators/animators-and-mirrors-106260.html)

9- [Irven Spence](http://likelylooneymostlymerrie.blogspot.com/2012/04/im-just-wild-about-irven.html)

10- [Ken Harris](http://www.cartoonbrew.com/animators/animators-and-mirrors-106260.html) Thanks for going to the trouble of hunting these down and posting. :) Woolie as in Wolfgang Reitherman? Director of *The Sword in the Stone* and *Robin Hood*?

Edit: Yes!  Above and beyond. http://i.imgur.com/wj2axJ0.gif Totally thought that the seventh one was [Hank Azaria](http://www.myhungergames.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/Hank-Azaria.jpg). I think it's actually Milt Kahl, bit I'm not 100% sure. Animators.   They do what they love to be doing. Yeah, and they just want to be left alone doing what they're doing. So many famous expressions for iconic cartoon characters are based off of a person? That's a pretty cool way to live past your life time. It's even crazier now with CG movies and games, most of the voice actors are used as reference for creating the charactors, take GTA:V for example. I think LA Noire is the best example of this. Beyond two souls is another Or in Far Cry 3. Vaas is 100% based off the voice actor. It made them able to do a short live action series on YouTube. and most of them are now made(animated) using motion capture. IE, they use actors, animators are now used for touch up work...
Source: almost animator I guess we're used for animations that cant be done by motion cap too, which is like.. only somettimes :( Go on... Take a look at the three main characters from GTA V (Michael Franklin and Trevor) then look at the voice actors for the three characters, the look very alike, it's surreal because it's like the characters come to life, sort of. https://youtube.com/watch?v=zeMuJbn_OhA#t=33s Haha that's great.  I'd never have expected him to actually get up and in the camera's "face" like that.   I love that video so much, that's exactly what I meant by the characters coming to life, because he's exactly like Trevor in this video. That's true. However, most *good* animators know how to act, in a sense, thus using these abilities as reference when the actors don't get it *just right*. Animators understand animation physics whereas many actors do not.  Most animators have to be good actors and understand acting as good as live action actors. Its just they are acting with a pencil.  [deleted] Actually Miranda was referenced from Yvonne Strahovski, her voice actress.

edit: Actually, where did you find that poster? it's completely wrong. Wait wasn't joker voiced by Seth Green?

Edit: NVm i'm stupid and also kind of drunk.

Edit 2: Okay as i said, I'm really drunk kind of, so you can imagine how confused I was by the final three images. Yes, Joker was done by Seth, that whole poster is wrong. That Mass Effect one is bullshit. I'd rather keep Yvonne Strahovski as Miranda. Also, Seth Green as Joker. No need to replace either of them. Will Smith in that terrible movie Shark Tale I loved that movie. :( Which is okay because movies are subjective  Opinions about movies are subjective. You all need to stop subjectifying me and my taste in movies. Subjectivity is my trigger I really don't remember it that well so sorry if I offended! Should I watch it again? That was my favourite animated movie. Is it worth watching again? I saw it as a sulking middle schooler, prepared to hate everything about life so my opinion is not worth anything :) If you like Will Smith comedy and lingo, you would like it. Characters are lovable and the plot is engaging.  It's interesting to me that all of these guys have faces that look cartoonish, but I only think that because they drew them in cartoons. You're probably close anyway with that first statement, they've been making faces for years and years, it's not hard to think they'd know by then how to exaggerate their faces in the best ways.  That and in a way you've seen their face plenty of times before on cartoons growing up It'd be cool to see a sketch of Bugs Bunny at an animators table drawing a sketch of an animator who's drawing Bugs Bunny who's drawing... That's mean, don't just leave me han Sorry, Leia  ..a bath. Having a face with good personality goes a long way. A lot of these guys were pretty funny with a lot of personality.  [deleted] Damn that's very involved. I wonder if he called her back. Plenty more fish in the sea   



Edit: [Gold? Splendid.](http://i00.i.aliimg.com/wsphoto/v0/2032184010/NEW-ARRIVE-Classic-New-happy-font-b-Nemo-b-font-Fish-Fancy-Dress-Mascot-font-b.jpg_220x220.jpg) Sounds right, I recorded myself looking at my mother's facebook page (she's passed away) to get expressions for a shot once. In the Tenth Anniversary Book, Bill Watterson stated the same underneath [this comic](http://www.adiumxtras.com/images/pictures/calvin_faces_2_15017_5291_thumb_7403.jpg) I believe.

I can understand why. I lived with my friend--who is an animator--in college. We'd be sitting there each working on our own stuff and she would make me stand up and act something out repeatedly,
Over and over, so she could get the fluidity down correctly. 

Friendship, man.  For what it's worth, these photos are all promotional shots. None of the drawings you are seeing are actually used in animation. These were shot for promotional purposes only. 

How do I know? I asked two of them. [I'm the worst animator in this photo.](http://bishopanimation.com/images/Frank_n_ollie.jpg) [This is what Frank Thomas looked like when he was really animating. ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-v15rj5NDAA) See how rough and sketchy the drawings are? They would then go through an inbetweener (the guys that draw all the frames in between the key poses) and then clean up, where the lines are strengthened and the overall drawing nailed down a bit more before going to ink and paint. Why does he bend the paper like that? He's flipping between drawings to check his work and see it in motion. I've honestly no idea; if I had to guess, he's super quickly referencing another drawing a few frames before. I know right! These drawings are all finished, it looks so fake. Ah well. These guys are still amazing. Fun fact: The first animated film was called [Humorous Phases Of Funny Faces](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Humorous_Phases_of_Funny_Faces) [This part](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8dRe85cNXwg#t=94) reminds me of the [famous Alfred Hitchcock Intro](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=flD-aRMwcjs)

 I'm an animator, you wouldn't catch me dead wearing a tie to work. That was my comment. How did such a creative industry embrace ties for so long? There definitely is something humorous about classic comedy being made primarily by middle aged white men in suits with sharp haircuts and cigarettes. I feel like there was also something about men of that time that just made it look "right". It was part of the world. Wait, are ties bad for a creative industry? I think he means back in the day everyone wore suits to do everyday things while today they wear casual clothing because they work alone People of that era used to wear suits when flying on airplanes.

These days it seems most people wear stained sweats/cargo shorts, flip-flops and a torn t-shirt. As an animator I can say mostly we do NOT work alone. I show my work and silly reference to all the other animators at the studio. Feed back and differing opinions are part of getting a good piece of animation looking great. I show my animation every step of the way to my lead and my director, as well as the reference I shoot so they can see where I'm going with my work. If you've got a team of animators you are comfortable with, you can shoot reference with each other just to get someone else's take on it. Animators don't work alone, because how else could they grow?  [deleted] I toured Ringling and they had a hallway in the animation department that had a huge mirror running the length of it. It was so students could walk or run or sneak or whatever to get reference I remember them putting that mirror in my Junior year in the new animation labs. So helpful.  Seriously curious: Ringling had an animation dept? por que? Ringling College of Art and Design, not to be confused with the circus. 

It's actually one of the most reputable animation schools in the world. Why is Hank Azaria in there? I was thinking the same about Gilbert Gotfried. I just finished watching Shirobako, an anime about an anime studio, and I dug this. Old-school animation is an amazing artform. [Highly relevant Shirobako gif](http://i.imgur.com/cTEE1SF.gif) Im at an animation school and our classical animation classrooms walls are just a mirror for this reason. Its not uncommon to have awkward walk ins at times. The one doing Bugs Bunny, is that Tex Avery?  
edit: It's Ken Harris I thought it was Walt Disney drawing Bugs for a second; followed by a second long existential crisis doubting what universe I'm in. A lot of girls make all of these faces consecutively when taking selfies Watching them is almost like a live action cartoon reel Does an anvil drop everytime you watch too? That's the best part when they make selfies. So when the old school guys were animating stuff did they literally have to redraw the whole character for every frame of an animation or was there some time saving trick? Every single frame is/was drawn by hand. 24 frames a second means there are 24 drawings for every second of animation. 

The "trick" was to divide the work and use multiple people. The leader animator draws the important frames; typically the first and last positions of any particular movement. Then you'd ship those off to another studio or your pool of entry-level animators who then draw all of the frames in between. 

These days, the process is sped up with computers. Animation software allows you to still draw every frame, but you can also create graphics that you move around like a puppet, with the software automatically creating the in-between frames. Most animators use a mix of the two these days, with mixed results.  I can't for the life of me figure out how they were able to draw everything so precise. I mean, drawing a line a fraction of a centimeter off on each frame would make everything jump around like a Dr. Katz cartoon. You could draw on a light table with the previous frame shining through. Or, if you wanna do it nowadays, you can turn down the previous layer's opacity to like 50%. A lot of practice. A lot of animators have model sheets and turn arounds of the characters to reference off of, and they would also practice drawing the character over and over until they had some muscle memory of the character. 
 When I animated, I always had a few "key" drawings on the animation disc. What I would do is place a few pages inbetween each finger my left hand and roll the pages constantly, back and forth. It's like a flipbook with 5 frames. But when you flip over and over, you start to see the changes and the things that look wrong. Sometimes I'd use a lightbox and line drawings up on top of each other to see if they were roughly the same size.

Most of it is practice though. Artists spend their whole lives drawing things as precisely as possible.  It was an assembly line, the supervising animator did the three to four main poses in the scene. This way he was called the supervisor; the scene was his baby. Then he would have his animators come in and fill in the drawings between those to his direction. Then another would come in and fill in the next set of missing drawings. Then Clean Up would take over, all the drawing would be traced onto other sheets of paper where they'd look spic-n-span. An attentive Supervising Animator would over look his scene while they were cleaning it up to make sure the traced drawings retained the characters weight and performance and artists original way he or she drew the character. Because tracing anything does and can remove the essence  of the original drawing. Then the in-between artists come in. Basically they draw line between line, filling in the final drawings that fill in the blanks. The tighter the nit the drawings are the slower the scene is, that artist would add to that moment in the scene. As Grim Natwick would say the timing is all in the spacing (of the drawings). 

Then the ink and paint department took over, they retraced every drawing again onto celluloid. Again the original intent and weight of the drawing is is lost in retracing. The four steps are, animators original drawings, then traced for clean up,  then the inbetweeners, and then retraced again onto celluloid. 

The last step was phased out when Pixar created their CAPS system, where the drawing were scanned into the computer and colored there. The first time that was used was on The Rescuers Down Under. The traditional ink and paint department was moved over to the computer.  
 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Onion_skinning

From there you can go on to read about 'inbetweeners' and 'key frames'. Most of the animation wasn't 24 frames per second. They animated on two's, 12 frames per second. Action scenes and pretty girls or graceful moments were 24 frames per second. Frank Thomas (Disney animator) said that 12 frames pre second shined! Also animating on twelves was cheaper, most people wouldn't be able to notice. On the Beauty and the Beast Blu-ray it was the first time I noticed the jitteriness of two's, basically it being easier to see in HD. Depends on the budget. There are shortcuts but most of them are regulated to Hanna barbera and TV, especially of the late 70s and early 80s. The rest of it is 12 individual drawings every second, at least.

Source: Went to school for animation. My 30 second POS animation for class weighed over 10lbs in paper.  The time saving trick was having them drawn on cels over painted backgrounds. The other time saving trick was having the cels inked elsewhere almost like an assemblyline. But animation generally was very much entirely made by hand up until computers took over in the mid-80's. 

You can tell which productions had bigger budgets. Animation from the 30's-early 50's meant to draw crowds into theaters brought serious money in. The motion is exceptionally fluid and detailed. And then you get to things made in the 60's-80's primarily for TV, and the animation is slow &amp; choppy, more identical frames are dedicated to each drawing, animation was typically outsourced, etc. lots of looping, reuse of old animation,  anything to cut corners Disney movies famously copied animations that they did in previous movies. Like, one character would dance and they basically traced that animation but replaced the character. But for the most part, there weren't many time saving techniques for feature animation.

TV animation was a little different. Hanna Barbera was known for just having lots of walk and run cycles and they'd literally just plop a separate head animation on top of that and call it a day. They gave lots of characters ties and collars to hide the seam between these parts.  I saw something a while back, and I think it'll really help to illustrate your point.  Here ya go:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sWKo5veKjVU Well, if you look at anime, you'll see a whole bunch of tricks people used.  Quite often, you can get away with partially animating something, such as just the face in some cases.  Sometimes animators would work on individual parts.  In addition, animation's not always done at 24 fps, or if it is, it isn't always done at a *consistent* 24- sometimes duplicate frames would make their way in, like for scenes that realistically have about 4 or 12 fps before the render.

The reason that Hanna Barbera cartoons were so cheap was mainly because in most scenes, they only animated the head(seriously, that's one of the main reasons that all the animals had collars), while the rest relied primarily on still shots and loops.  

And another thing- not all frames are created equal- the most attention would often be put into "keyframes", which defined the action- if you watch an animated video frame-by-frame, you'll see some weird shit with the "in betweens". It depends what is moving in that particular scene. If the character is standing still and only speaking, then they would only draw and animate the face. is the circle bit of the desk for rotating the workpeice? Basically. They're generally known as a lightbox or animator's desk/dock.

You place a light inside of it to see through the paper so that you can overlap it onto the frames before and work them together more easily.

[Here's a fairly good view of one with nothing on it.](http://i.imgur.com/YbfWeuW.jpg)

That canvas allows the light inside the box to shine through so that you can see several pages worth of drawings on top of one another. It's actually not a choice. People don't like to hang around sketchy individuals. Give an animator a hug when you see one, they're a lonely bunch. Am an animator. I'm not lonely at all.  Sounds sketchy Am an animator. Can confirm.  Do people still do this?? Any modern animators want to show their version of this process? Pics or it didn't happen Many artists do this. I do it.  Animation student here (3D computer animation). One of the current assignments includes animating a character to jump. There's been a plenty of people recording themselves jumping for reference, and plenty more demonstrating jumps for others as they work in the animation labs.

I personally also take on whatever expressions I'm drawing.  Yup. We still do this except that smartphones, GoPros, and webcams have replaced the mirror. Bonus: when we nail a scene, we can now pause, rewind, and go through it frame-by-frame. :) Having references always helps. Sometimes looking up pictures can help with the process but at times acting it out yourself can help with understanding the movement of the action or getting the specific amount of expression that you want out of the shot/frame/scene. I usually do this for some work 2d or 3d no doubt there are plenty others that do as well.  Yes, its a lot easier to physically make the face you're thinking of and draw it than trying to do it from memory. I know I do it especially when I can't figure out a difficult motion or what X looks like from a particular angle so I just mime it out. Animator here and we totally do. Even in college, we had mirrors in all of the labs so we could act things out in front of them. Also had stopwatches to make sure we could get timing right. Still two of the most useful tools to have on hand when working. :) This is what you're looking for. http://animationprogression.blogspot.com/

Edit: Skip to the best of the best https://vimeo.com/38332730 My dad was an animator for Disney and Nickelodeon, and when I was a kid I remember him sketching characters with the most ridiculous looks on his face. He wouldn't even notice but it was hilarious! These pictures were lifted from this article dated November 26th 2014.
http://www.cartoonbrew.com/animators/animators-and-mirrors-106260.html When I saw the Bugs Bunny expression, I couldn't help but say 'er... What's up doc?' in my head. The second to last one looks like mirror guy has just witnessed some shit.      The second to last 
    one looks like mirror guy has 
    just witnessed some shit.  I wanna see the contortions made by Cyriak. really well It never ceases to amaze me that other human beings can draw things like that.. The animators getting animated for their animations. Amazing post!!!! I love classical art but these animators and all you people who can draw cartoons at this level, this is the art I appreciate. You people are amazing and have truly made my life better for your skill/craft/gift. Thank you. The last one is the amazing Ken Harris.  The greatest of the Warner Brothers animators.   brilliant It's pictures like these that make me wonder why there has never been a movie made about the animators of cartoons, like you could make a movie about Termite Terrace, the early location where looney tunes was made, and have each person be like the real life version of Bugs, Daffy, Elmer, etc. Good thing theres no one standing behind them, taking photos Ah, but if these guys were alone....

Then WHO WAS CAMERA? Getting up, moving, walking or otherwise doing the action you're animated over and over again. Something animators understand. Sooo guilty of this. The mad men area what we can't see is the bottle of rye and ash tray full of cigarettes. On the desk  All of them are right handed. There's something strange about a suited man drawing cartoons. Why do they all look like they a 1950s FBI? Standard professional attire for the 50s probably Nice racc. Raccs? Raccs on raccs on raccs Racc city bitch Racc Racc city bitch Coon porn "Love me Jeffrey...LOVE me!" (Drops robe on floor) "While you're up, mind grabbin' me a beer." [I'm on my way.](http://i.imgur.com/MLagb.gif) [Here's some munchies, too.](http://gifrific.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/11/Raccoon-Steals-Cat-Food.gif) is there a sub for GIFs of raccoons stealing things and running away? please be a thing. The cat's just like "The fuck mate? I can't eat that anymore." He... he looks so pleased. *Zip-a-dee-doo-dah, zip-a-dee-ay!!!* *my,  oh my what a wonderful day!* plenty of sunshine heading my way
 *Zip-a-dee-doo-dah, zip-a-dee-ay!* There's a blue bird on my shoulder, It's the truth, it's actual, Everything is satisfactional!  I spy a fellow beer lover. Pretty sure male racoons don't have 3 pairs of nipples, *could be wrong though.* Is there a gif for *every* occasion? There's a everything for everything on the internet And just when you think that the internet doesn't have a particular everything, fucking BAM! There's fucking *everything* about that everything. The only problem with having access to everything is that everything loses its luster after a while... Be sure to stop by /r/retiredgif /r/retiredgif Shall we retire this? Do the honors my friend.  "You can look honey, but if you want to touch you got to pay." Now its 5 dollars to touch it while I touch my toes, 6 dollars to touch it while I touch your...  [deleted] As if he'd need to see more wood... Go home Rocket, you're drunk "And give the old woman a slap on the ass for me.  Haha, iiiim just fuckin' with ya." this is actually a distraction, and theres other racoons on ropes hanging from the ceiling stealing your tv You hear a commotion and go to investigate, finding two raccoons trying to maneuver your 55 inch tv out the window on the pulley system they've worked up.  Realizing they've been spotted, they unhook one of the ropes securing the tv to the pulley line and make a break for it.  Without thinking, you slide across the room on one knee and just manage to catch the tv before it smashes against the floor, partially breaking the fall with your body.  You inspect the tv for damage, frustrated that the would be beastly burglars got away, but relieved that you foiled the *real* heist.  You place the tv back on its stand and look around for the remote, before it hits you: "Why wasn't that damn dog barking at these raccoons running all over the place?" You call for the dog, moving from room to room, but he's nowhere to be found.  You check your bedroom, *nope, no dog*, but before you step back out, you notice the portrait covering the wall safe in your room is askew.  You go to fix it, but decide to check the safe just in case...*empty!*  You dart for the door, but trip over something on the floor. *A dog costume!*  A montage of memories comes flooding back...how easily the dog always opened the trash can no matter what measures were taken to secure it, the number of times you found him rifling through boxes of food in the cupboards *above the counter*, the bristly black and white beard and beady eyes of the mysterious man who sold him to you, and his refusal to shake your hand.  *Raccoons in a trenchcoat!!*  You lie back on the floor, near paralyzed with disbelief.  You have been Ocean's 11ed by raccoons. I thought this was supposed to be read to the beat of the Shia thing. Raccoon surprise! Dammit, I'm trying not to wake the baby. This hilarity isn't helping! Have an upvote! Damn coons breaking in and stealing my tvs Coons? When racoons try to get on our back porch, Momma just chase 'em off with a broom. Once in Florida, while driving down a street at night in Ft Lauderdale, we see a group of 30 or so raccoons all gathered around on a street corner.  The light started to change so we stop at the light, and then they all got up and crossed the street at once, single file.  They waited for the damn light to change.   Raccoons are wicked smart. Netflix had (still has?) a documentary called **Raccoon Nation** that explains how quickly and efficiently they have evolved to thrive in urban, human-dense areas. They said the #1 "predator" of urban raccoons is - simply put - cars. So it makes sense that they are adapting to traffic as well. Wicked smaht.  Yup, that's the accent I read it in too!  The little babies in that documentary trying to get into the top of that shed are adorable.  Omg yes. I could have just watched hours of that Yeah, I've heard coyotes do pretty well in urban areas too. Any time a story starts off "once in Florida" I know it's gonna be good. /r/FloridaMan  Floridan here. Can confirm, you hear the coolest/stupidest stories.  Looks like she is in a food coma from finishing off whatever pet food was in the red bowl in the background.   http://i.imgur.com/zB4CJXcl.jpg My god... what is that thing? diabetic

Edit: One of you magnificent folks has honored me with gold for this simple quip.  For this I am humbled and grateful.  Thanks, reddit :). Let's dia-beat-this. Australian Possum  I think it's specifically a [Brush Tail Possum](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_brushtail_possum). "Hey..... You.... so uh, got anymore of that kibble?" They fucking love dog food. Am Arkansan, can confirm. Though sometimes it's a possum. Usually it's a possum. I woke up one night to scratching on my window. Thought maybe something was sitting on my air conditioner and scratching the glass. I was right. What I was wrong about is that I assumed it would be on the outside of the glass. Nope, big ass possum sitting there looking at me, scratching on the window, trying to get out. I opened the window next to it, knocked out the screen and went back to bed. This is Arkansas. Don't forget about the coyotes. There are coyotes fucking everywhere. And meth. I'm originally from Pea Ridge. Plenty of meth. Went to high school in Huntsville, remembering playing you guys in sports. Nothing sends a chill down your spine like riding the football bus up to Pea Ridge; straight out of Deliverance haha. As someone originally from Huntsville, I feel this is a pot calling the kettle black situation.  Oh certainly; in fact that's the only reason why I feel qualified to poke some fun. You can hear the banjos in our neck of the woods as well! "Hey everybody look! Someone's attractive cousin!" I feel lucky having grown up in Little Rock  As someone who works in Huntsville, AL, I was temporarily confused. You know what's funny? Huntsville, AL, is in "Madison" county in Bama, and my Huntsville, AR, is also in "Madison" county in Arkansas. Anyways, there have been a number of times when I've told people I'm from "Huntsville" and they think of your Huntsville and ask "oh shit, you been to space camp??" Every time I've had to hang my head and say "no". As a dude from the backwoods of the river valley, both Pea Ridge and Huntsville both seemed nice to me... Like Huntsville is much better... I wouldn't be surprised at all if the Pea Ridge folks felt the same way when they drove over our way haha. Theres meth on your porch when you turn the lights on? I've seen a couple meth heads wondering around the water park I work at. Also live in NWA. Do you switch from guy to guy? Like, is Ice Cube your summer home while you chill in Dre during the winters? And what's the situation with Easy? Easy is the type of town you avoid Don't leave out armadillos! At least that's a pretty big one up here in northern Arkansas.  The worst is forgetting to close the garage door. Going out in the morning to 2 possums and a skunk eating dog food. I turned around and quietly let them do their thing. Also Arkansas here - we used to have a family of possums that lived in our walls.  Kinda annoying in that they used to pee through the ceiling and one fell THROUGH the ceiling that one time in to the bathtub (which really ruined my sister's night), but once they moved out and the skunks moved in we would have welcomed the possums back.  Sorry for being a naive Canadian. But doesn't everyone in America have more guns then hockey sticks? Why not just shoot em? Pew, Pew, Pew. Dinner for a week!  Shooting inside city limits is a big no no. Generally we bludgeon them when it comes nut cutting time.  Funny enough i'm a U.S. cop and had to arrest a drunk Canadian last week for firing off a gun in city limits. He was so confused because he thought it was a common thing to do.... Fellow Arkansan checking in. Certainly have had some interesting raccoon and possum run-ins. The occasional armadillo always provides for a great showing once the dogs get wind of it. Little fuckers burrow themselves 3/4 into the ground and just refuse to be moved. 3 grown men pulling on its legs and tail? Don't matter. It's staying right there. Why do you try to move it? Do they cause any problems? Signed, a city person. On that occasion I'm pretty sure we just didn't want the dogs to accidentally hurt it. I suppose one could really terrorize a flower garden, but they're pretty harmless (although my momma will be quick to remind you that they carry Leprosy the dirty devils!). Amazing how strong the little guys are. Wait.....Leprosy?!? Kentucky here. Story time! When I was little we lived in a really trashy house, and one time during winter, we opened a drawer and a possum was just chilling there. Raccoons also nested in that attic. Then when I was in high school, I was sitting outside and a raccoon came up to sniff my foot. Also, when we lived in a trailer, coyotes would come up pretty close and poke around. Indiana-I went to a friends house there was a raccoon hanging on a friends screen door. Opened the door with it on there and knocked. Thought it was fake like a decoration or something until I closed the screen door and it jumped off and scurried away. Scared the crap out of me. You sure it wasn't Bielema?

http://cdn2.sbnation.com/imported_assets/1339743/A9UWbc7CcAEhguc_medium.jpg &gt;You sure it wasn't Bielema?

Isn't that when hot girls make themselves throw up to stay skinny? I was thinking, "okay, what do you find on a limb.... A possum." Then I was thinking, "What do you find on a possum?" 

Tire tracks

A hungry guy from Arkansas I grew up in arkansas. The first time I saw a possum on the porch as a kid I couldn't think of anything to yell except "IT'S A GIANT RAT!" Usually its an opossum.  In Arkansas that is.   Actually common misconception. In Arkansas the proper usage of the "o" is to drop it and shove it up your ass.  Arkansas party.  Checking in.  I have nipples Greg, can you milk me?  http://i.imgur.com/wLMN4QQ.png

edit: http://i.imgur.com/PAQQNNB.png

part 3: http:http://i.imgur.com/1EZZN2N.png &gt;mony gibe mony pleasi I raport u BR BR BR BR BR BR HR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR BR Reverse image search shows nothing, so im gonna assume you drew these.     
Good job! Did you draw the "AK" for Arkansas? If so, I hate to break this to you...  We AR just going to have to tell him. Did you make this just for this occasion? Or did this exist already? 

I'm not sure which one would weird me out more. Yeah that last one...i wasn't expecting feels from a racoon story Did you have that handy?  Look at mah sexy belleh! My grandparents had 15 acres in The Ozarks in Arkansas.  They had a pet raccoon named Ricky. He was caught in the wild as a baby. They raised him for a few years. He had a good sized pin outside with a raccoon house in it. When they released him, he vanished and a few months later brought back his raccoon family and allowed them to say hello to my grandparents. He was a nice critter. He is the exception to my raccoon experiences.  Most are complete dicks and will fuck your garbage up!  Where in Arkansas? I don't see many Arkansans here. 

Did you at least use your Southern hospitality and offer it a drink? ;) NWA checking in. NWA 4 lyfe. Actually just moved to the area recently, which seems to be the story for most people I talk to here.  I've been here for about 3 years, so welcome! This is the only Arkansas thread I've really been in.  It's nice isn't it? WE'RE RELEVANT 4 days new here in NWA! I'm from AR!:) we wear shoes I promise. Sometimes.  I honestly get asked that all the time when I tell people I'm from Arkansas. I also get told "But you don't have an accent!"

Shocking Lots of us AR folks here. NWA here I'm from L.A.  Lower Arkansas.  Fort Smith checking in! I live in central AR. You?

Edit: such disappoint. Not one Searcy-an here.  We exist! There's literally dozens of us  "Draw me like one of your French girls" Je suis enchant de faire votre raccoonnaissance. HA! Tu ne crains pas le qu'en-di-raton. Constipated and reeking of cigarette smoke? Hairy armpits? french-french, not french-canadian Je ne parle pas qubcois  Je veux quelque chose de la magasin  Le chien est brun. Omelette du fromage Omelette du fromage What? The stereotype is that French women have hairy armpits, not French-Canadian. That is French-French lmao

 Well, /u/fatmex is a fat Mexican. What do you expect?  As a French-Canadian, i can affirm this about as inaccurate a description of French-Canadian girls as you can get. Why are they constipated? Too much cheese. Too much Pennsylvania Parmesan* Reddit gets so meta so fast these days. It's hard to keep up  It's a full time job. Wtf is this reference, I've seen it on every damn thread today x.x

Edit: Thanks for the links everyone! http://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/american-english/parmesan-cheese?q=Parmesan+%28cheese%29/

Click the speaker  Here ya go.

http://www.reddit.com/r/funny/comments/36l25k/ive_been_saying_parmesan_wrong_my_whole_life/ I'm currently having breakfast and you just reminded me to get up and add some feta cheese to this omelette. Thanks. But I am le tired. &gt; st and you just reminded me to get up and and some feta cheese to this omelette. Thanks.

Well have a nap, then FIRE ZE MISSLES! Meanwhile, down there we got Australia - WTF? http://i.imgur.com/MQm5uFx.gif Expected xposting /r/photoshopbattles in  3... 2...  I legit want to see it. [Someone jumped on it pretty quickly](http://www.reddit.com/r/photoshopbattles/comments/36oxd7/psbattle_this_lounging_porch_raccoon_xpost_rpics/). Expected this comment from the thumbnail. Step it up, Reddit! [Porch in Australia](http://www.quickmeme.com/img/12/12396e28373d743a01af3c81576cf02e51822f5063b42404503285bf5d7067af.jpg) [Porch in Colorado](http://i.imgur.com/ISeqddR.jpg) "She's" packing... "How do you know it was a man?" "Because, his Adam's apple was the size of his balls, and he had hands like Andre the Giant!" "Draw me like one of your French ~~girls~~ squirrels" I went to the comments because I knew someone would say this, and I had to be sure.   http://i.imgur.com/5FCAg0t.jpg She's been watching you in the darkness, through the windows for a long time. Finally build up the courage to get up on the porch and make her move...

So? Is it working?

I wonder how weird the human body would look with 6 sets of nipples? /u/Shitty_Watercolour, wanna take a stab at showing us? your comment wasn't funny to me until i went back and looked at the photo. the little hand almost rubbing its top passenger side nipple got me.  &gt;passenger side They call me... the raccoon passenger  &gt; top passenger side nipple 

https://i.imgur.com/7wa30e3.gif [The other two are hiding.](http://i.imgur.com/cKr9nhd.png) See... this is what I thought we'd get... thanks for bringing my suspicions to life.
 You suspected it would gloriously and deeply arousing? Raccoons are working for the cable company now. So this is what gets Arkansas in the front page... It could be worse It rubs the rancid butter on its skin Works 2 out of 3 times The Timeless Art of Seduction [What happened next](http://i.imgur.com/DqDS9Np.gif) For those that aren't aware, the person doing the throwing is the founder of Digg.

The raccoon was attacking his dog, so I feel it was justified.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k-gp84vVhQM Anyone who has the balls to grab a wild raccoon with their bare hands is justified in doing whatever they want in my opinion. Especially op. Thanks for clearing that up, I was about to crusade for some raccoons up in here. Wheew! close call...Theres nothing as crusadey as a reddit crusade http://m.imgur.com/gallery/ly0EjPz ay bby u want sum fuk "Like what you see?" *winks* NSFW for titties [Uh.... You like what you see?](http://images.tvrage.com/news/review-it-s-always-sunny-in-philadelphia-season-8-episode-22.png) What the fuck does a picture of a bird have to do with any of this? [Oh, hey Dee.](http://hf.titansable.com/images/8/81/609-34.jpg) "I'm bringing sexyback" those nipples look like milk duds U must have a pretty chill home to have guests lookin that comfortable lol [Expectation vs. Reality](http://i.imgur.com/jDqrY3f.jpg) You know you want me!
 I see something akin to Hedonism bot from Futurama. "You may suckle now". http://theinfosphere.org/Hedonism_Bot Why isn't "Draw me like one of your French girls" the top comment? http://i.imgur.com/OVZQj0D.gif Furries be like, "Fuck tits, I want six nipples on a bitch." Looks like she just got done nursing her babies. This is what we get in Tennessee. 

http://m.imgur.com/J1BH3Ou Arkansas, the land of drunk coons. When racoons tried to get on our back porch, Momma just chased 'em off with a broom I always thought of it as being pretty white Calling them coons is pretty white if that counts.  Yaranaika? [Chillin', all sexy 'n shit](http://imgur.com/tjMuCmS)

Alternate:

[You want these nuts?](http://imgur.com/cOIESya) So, basically, a cable customer service rep? First time here, here's my butt hole. [F18] *HOT, SINGLE RACCOONS IN YOUR AREA WANT TO MEET YOU* Que Marvin Gaye " Just the Two of Us" /r/wildgonewild "Paint me like one o' them there Frenchy varmits." Paint me like one of your French girls. Paint me like one of your french girlfriends.  "Draw me like one of your French girls" /r/me_irl  [Would you fuck me?  I'd fuck me.](http://i.imgur.com/aFGex.jpg) [I'd fuck me hard](http://imgur.com/PAhMVZt). Good bye horses  So..... when is the calendar coming out? Incredible pictures, thanks for sharing! Reminds me of my desktop wallpaper from 2002ish.

http://marti.rootsweb.ancestry.com/rusty/_/apps/Digital%20Blasphemy/Digital%20Blasphemy/2000/fluorescence62560.jpg That was everybody's wallpaper in 2002.  Mine was the one where you take a picture behind the monitor and it looks like you can see through the computer [Eg.](http://i.kinja-img.com/gawker-media/image/upload/s--0AgwIqZG--/c_fit,fl_progressive,q_80,w_636/17uojiucxxykijpg.jpg) That's actually pretty awesome. I've never seen that one. I remember going to make one, then realising that behind my monitor was a wall... not really that cool to be honest.  It would also be much harder to perfect with a laptop.  that's why  you get a laptop with one of those rotating camera's or tablet style laptops. What I did is I went outside and took a picture on the other side of the wall so my computer monitor looked like a window. Helped that there was a window next to the desk and some plants outside. Doesn't work so well on a laptop though.  Only works from one angle but it is pretty cool...when I was 12 at least Savage. Mine is that photo. With me taking a picture of myself taking a picture of it. Everytime I look at the computer I think I'm standing behind myself.  It only works if you're at the right angle though. And probably at a certain time of day only Before I clicked it I thought to myself it cant be it cant be .....clicked it yes it is wallpaper I used in 2002 &gt; That was everybody's wallpaper in 2002. 

I scoffed when I read that, then I looked at the link and yeah you are absolutely right. 

 I'll just count this as my broken clock statement of the day.  Not me, the landscape is masterrace. Fuck... that's still my wallpaper... except I have a triple monitor display, so I have three different hues of that same damn mushroom.

Thanks, digitalblasphemy. You're welcome :-) How does it feel to know that your art was/(is?) one of the most common custom background images?

I had that image as a background for years, going to put it back up for nostalgia.  

Thanks! Whoa. You're a person. I never even stopped to consider that. Have been using your wallpapers for longer than I can remember.

You. I like you. Holy cow. You're awesome!

My go-to wallpaper back then wasn't the mushrooms, but it was still one of your's. It was the [aurora borealis over snowy pines](http://www.digitalblasphemy.com/preview.shtml?i=skysong2) wallpaper...I even went back to it for awhile after you updated it, for old times' sake. That has to be one of the most pirated images on the internet.  I'm happy that people are using it.   Consider it the gateway drug to the [rest of my work](http://digitalblasphemy.com/wallpapers.shtml).

Some of those "pirates" even become legit [Members](https://secure.digitalblasphemy.com/signup.shtml) eventually.   That's why I am still able make wallpapers after 17 years on the web. The blue-shrooms one was in the free gallery for the longest time. Looks like they swapped it out for the [red hue one](http://digitalblasphemy.com/preview.shtml?i=fluorescence2k9colors1) though.

But considering all of digitalblasphemy's wallpapers are/were available for free on google image search, I am indeed surprised they make any money at all. http://digitalblasphemy.com


Here is the artists website.  Amethyst Deceiver would be a great name for a Deep Purple cover band. [Album art](http://i.imgur.com/wc5qM4Q.jpg) I have no previous knowledge of mushrooms before looking at these pictures, but from the looks of it, those are not Amethyst Deceivers. But what do I know...  Right? It looks like a cock and balls. Song by experimental band COIL. Latin, Latin, Latin, mushrooms with snail, Latin, Latin...  Also puffballs And Little Golden Mushrooms Snaaaake Snaaaaake! Hehe it says phallus Internal commentary as I scrolled through the lot: "God, they're beautiful...God, they're weird...God, they're beautiful...but God, they're weird..."  Mine was "i bet this one is poisonous.  And this one.  And this one. .." Lion's Mane was the only edible one I could pick out. \#27 - Amanita Muscaria

This is the second most common mushroom used as a recreational drug, second to *psilocybin*.

Obligatory:  Before anyone goes munching on these you should research and understand that they are very different from psilocybin. I do believe there was also a morel. 
A little sauce: http://homecooking.about.com/library/weekly/bl092897b.htm I was thinking you could make a whole crazy animated movie just with mushrooms. They could have just used pictures of mushrooms for Alice in Wonderland and it would have been just as magical looking. You should check out [Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6zhLBe319KE) You had me at Studio Ghibli. If you're a fan I'm surprised you haven't seen it.  It's Tier I Miyazaki, up there with Spirited Away and Princess Mononoke. Or up there with Laputa and Castle of Cagliostro. :)

Everyone has their favorites. It's my favourite for sure That's a really bad trailer.  I love the movie, but I doubt I'd watch it based on that trailer.

It's nearly as bad as the butchered American version "Walkers of the Wind". I swear, fungi are so weird I would not be surprised at all if someday scientists proved a panspermic theory of fungi arriving on earth from space after Animalia and Plantae have already been established Well, isn't that the whole reason we have oil and coal today? There was nothing on earth to break down plant matter - the job that fungi do very well these days? There were no organisms that were able to digest wood and fungi filled that niche.

But still fungi are related to all other known organisms. In fact they're more closely related (as in: the last common ancestor of two groups existed closer in time than that of one of these groups to another group) to Animalia than Animalia or Fungi are to Plantae. I remember I had a total brain-hiccup when I learned what mycology was.  

I remembered it was one of the departments listed on the zoology building, not the botany building and I couldn't figure it out.  We're all weird It's strange though... Here in Catalonia we have a huge culture of the "Bolet" (mushroom) and entire families go to the forest on Autum to collect them, so much so that they have had to restrict acess to many forests and require special ID's to protect them! We have names (besides the latin ones) for pretty much all kinds of mushrooms and many delicious dishes for all of those edible (and of course, know from a young age which ones are and which ones aren't)  My internal commentary: Phallus Indusiatus.... don't laugh, don't laugh, don't laugh. Damnit. Apparently the Latin translates to "Dick with underwear". They look so deadly poisonous.  Are any of these edible?  Very cool pics - I've never seen most of these.   They are all edible.      
 - Guy on internet. This is an example of when "technically correct" is not the best kind of correct. notwrongjustanasshole.jpeg They are all edible once.

\- The other guy on the internet impeccable credentials. As far as I know, people on the internet don't lie. And I know - I'm on the internet after all. He's a French model... Bonjour Sup? Followup question: are they able to eaten without dying shortly afterward? Define shortly afterward. As a direct result of having eaten it. i've eaten one of [these](http://imgur.com/a/Dii3H#ME6Wkg5) and i'm fine. The Amanita Muscaria is the greatest mushroom in the world, from a standpoint of cultural relevancy. It's major hallucinogenic effect is to distort the eater's perception of size. There is a reason that Mario's super mushroom looks like it does. It's also rumored to have partly inspired the mushroom in "Through the Looking Glass." But perhaps it's greatest contribution to western society is the idea of flying reindeer. You see, it grows primarily under pine trees in the far northern hemisphere, and reindeer love to eat it. There is a widely held belief that these intoxicated deer gave rise to that aspect of the Christmas mythology. Regardless of whether or not it is actually true, the traditional Christmas colors of red, white, and green were chosen in part to reflect this mushroom and it remains a classic ornament to this day. Please tell me this is actually true! Do you have sources? I have a mycology class tomorrow and I would love to tell my fellow students this piece of wisdom.

I might do it regardless wether it's true or not... Here is an article I could track down online, though I couldn't find the original article I read about this in.  I remember it was the City Weekly in SLC around Christmas...

http://catalystmagazine.net/this-month/item/1052-the-psychedelic-secrets-of-santa With or without a liver transplant? All mushrooms are edible if you're brave enough Delectable food? Or deadly poison? At least one of these (amanita muscaria) is edible, but will make you trip balls for the next 6 hours. So that's edible with an asterisk. Listed as toxic in most sources, but I've read there are no known deaths of healthy people, with the exception of an ill man in 1896 who did die after eating them raw. End of this article: http://www.williamrubel.com/2011/10/05/how-much-amanita-muscaria-to-eat/ According to Terrance McKenna's book Food of the Gods they are more toxic than psychoactive. You are guaranteed to get sick but not guaranteed to get high. The morel mushroom is edible and its only side effect is delicious-ness  Many are edible, though far past their prime. IMO, the only ones worth eating if found are numbers 7 (Laccaria amethystina), 12 (Mislabled, IMO, looks like a Chlorophyllum rhacodes), 17 (Coprinus comatus, but this one would make you super sick because too old), 21 (Morchella esculenta sells for $50 a pound!), if you are brave and know how to prepare it 27 (Amanita muscaria is not a fun trip. Might as well eat datura), and 29 (Hericium species, as choice an edible as the morel and you can grow them yourself!).




Some of my colleagues will eat numbers 5, 9, 20 and 30, but only when they are still "eggs". In other words, these stinkhorns begin fully encased in an egg shaped, subterranean structure called a peridum. You can slice the mushroom up at this stage, cook, and eat it. You cannot and will not want to eat it once it ruptures the peridum (it will stink to high holy hell).



Some of the puffballs are also edible (1 and 22), but these are not puffballs typically consumed.



Sauce: mod at /r/mycology Is your occupation related to mushrooms? I always love learning about all the amazing things mushrooms can do and as a high school student am interested in a career field that perhaps could allow me to learn about mushrooms. Any specific field of biology perhaps?  I am actually an environmental lawyer for a regulatory entity (alongside a team of educated and intelligent engineers and scientists, I make and enforce environmental law). Mycology is just a hobby and partially because it has been a very neglected kingdom for many, many years. I couldn't get a degree in it at college (and I definitely inquired). And even now, very few places offer a degree in mycology.



Usually mycology comes up within the context of the health of a forest, for example if you got a degree in forestry. Or in taxonomy. Or in studying genetic groupings. 



But why don't you make a .self post to /r/mycology and see what some of our professionals have to say. We have a couple of guys who grow mushrooms on an industrial scale, a bunch of biologists, a bunch of professional foragers, and a predominance of well-read hobbyists like me.  The "puffballs", but not in the state pictured.

Perhaps the one labled "lepiota" but it's hard to tell the species.

"Coprinus chromatis", but again, the one in this picture is far to advanced.

The "morchella escualenta" (morel) is one of the most delicious and sought after. 

The "toothed mushroom" is a species of hericium and tastes similar to lobster flesh.


These are the ones that I can ID and say are commonly eaten (by mushroom foragers) in North America Found three morels last night I've been looking for morels for two weeks now. Still haven't found a single one. Morel of the story? Give up before you start. The Amethyst Deceiver is edible as well but doesn't taste like much. They're usually added to fancy salads to give a bit of a wow factor from the sheer purpleness of them. That's a bit underwhelming. Is it called the Deceiver because it looks much more dangerous than it is? seriously, i thought it was deceiver cause it looks pretty but will kill your ass &gt; seriously, i thought it was deceiver cause it looks pretty but will kill your ass

It will, all of posts talking about how safe it is were made by amethyst deceivers. I have been deceived.  Apparently it starts off a vibrant purple but fades to grey, hence the deception? I grow the "toothed mushroom" (Lions Mane is the name I call it by) and they are very easy to grow, in addition to tasting delicious and being good for you. I call them lions mane as well. I'm not a big fan of the nomenclature used in this (re)post as it switches between *Genus species* type, *Genus* type, common names, and descriptive names.

There are dozens of "toothed" fungus and this one is easily identifiable as Hericium. [Hedge hog](http://themushroomforager.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/IMG_2135-1024x682.jpg) are another toothed fungus that I like to collect.

I love shredding the lion's mane and making "crab cakes."  yeah, it's all technical and then all of a sudden, "mushroom and a snail." the morchella escualenta are fun to hunt.  I found over 20 in one day last year.  ate a few, sold the rest for WAY cheap. at least once Puffballs are edible before they make the spores. Taste like a very light whitefish. Interesing description.

Pear shaped puffballs are one of my favorite and one of the most delicious fungi out there. ["Morchella esculenta, like all morels, are among the most highly prized of all edible mushrooms."](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morchella_esculenta#Edibility) :) Just got home from picking some morels. Been enjoying them almost daily for the last two weeks.  Hydnellum peckii or Bleeding Tooth Fungus isn't toxic so you could technically eat it, but it is supposedly very bitter tasting. The Morchella Esculenta, commonly called Morel mushrooms are edible and delicious. They grow here in Oklahoma every spring. Morels (number 21) are god damn delicious. Mushrooms are like meat-plants and I don't trust them! One of my friends in college was vegan and she told me she sometimes felt guilty about eating mushrooms because the texture was so meaty. (Obviously she ate them anyways but apparently that's a thing.) Forreal though, fungus are weird as shit. You're not a plant, you're not an animal, WHAT ARE YOU? My bio professors all tell me that phylogenetically-speaking, fungi is more closely related to animals than they are to plants.  [ONLY ONE POSSIBILITY](http://whyareyoustupid.com/wp-content/uploads/ancient-aliens-guy.jpg)  Uhh...they're fungus  I think the one that looks like a frog is my fav. It's called [mimicry](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mimicry) and this is an outstanding example. The mushroom blooms in frog mating season. It is a mimicking a female and this flesh eating mushroom is waiting for unsuspecting males to clamp to the female. Once a frog clamps on for reproduction it will never let go, this mushroom makes clever use of this fact of nature.  Like half of those are deadly poisonous Wait.... this wasn't a menu of delicious mushrooms? My tummy hurts. It tastes like.. Burning. It tastes like grandma. Go ahead, Ralphie. The stranger is offering you a treat. "These berries taste like burning" 

*drops dead* i am relevant!  Every mushroom is eatable. Some just once... I mean maybe the *Mycena* species contain muscarine, but I don't see a single definitively deadly species in that album. I see several choice edibles, though. Amanita muscaria contains muscimol and ibotenic acid (a neurotoxin) but the amount you need to eat before it will kill you is like 15 caps

In low doses it has dissociative and deliriant effects and has been used recreationally for a very long time (they are not very good compared to psilocybin mushrooms) Don't people think they grow bigger or smaller when eating them? just italian plumbers. Oh shit. I never thought about it in this way. What? That mario and luigi are just high as balls and are saving some random lady from a flooded bathroom and maybe do animal control on the side? Specifically why eating a shroom makes them bigger.

I mean, I was a kid and didn't care whether it is a shroom or a fucking candy, it was just an item that makes you bigger. Now it suddenly clicked why it is a shroom. What percentage of them will make me trip balls? The amanita muscaria might. It definitely will if you eat enough, although probably not as pleasant of a trip as other fungi you may have tried. The fly amanita (red with white spots) will definitely make you trip balls. I was upset that there weren't any death caps =( I think the purpose of the album was to showcase pretty mushrooms not deadly ones. :P As I heard recently from an outdoorsman:

&gt; There are no edible mushroom experts because they're all dead. Well who would want to eat a living mushroom expert anyway  Great collection, but..  Mushroom with a snail - really?  All the binomial nomenclature in the world until you get down to mushroom with a snail. *Mushroomwi thasnail*    

Better? *Mushroomwithass nail* Now im imagining a hangnail growing out of someones asshole way ahead of you. Weaddahbaby Eetsaboy Nuts how often this commercial pops into my head, and how difficult it would be to explain to the younger generation. It's not difficult at all really.

"Long distance and public pay phones used to cost money. You could call people collect and have it on their bill instead of yours. When it asked you to state your name to accept the charges the caller could say a fast message like "Mymoviesdone Comepickmeup" and then the receiver could deny the charges. It was a way to send free small messages." I doubt OP made this. It's /u/dwimback, aka an alt for "don't worry, I'm here", one of the more notorious commenting trolls.

Dude has probably collected more comment down votes than link upvotes in his time here, so I seriously doubt he does mushroom studies in his spare time.  He capitalized all the species epithets though, so it was clear we were dealing with a nomenclature noob. Didn't even mention the mosquito in #8. Fuck that little mosquito. Death to mosquitoes. The ones with a snail are a Mycena species I believe.  Does it really matter? Just have fun, guy. My first thought when I saw the picture was "magic mushrooms!" and then the title "mushroom with a snail" just confirmed it...

They're almost certainly in the [psilocybe](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psilocybe_semilanceata) family. Should said photographer be located in the US, "mushroom with a snail" is a smarter title than "Schedule I drug"... So how much light do the glowing ones actually give off? Is that like a 3 hour exposure of an almost nonexistant glow? Or is it actually significant? Mycena Chlorophos - "Maximum luminescence occurs at 27 C, and about 2539 hours after the primordia begin to form, when the cap has fully expanded. At 21 C, luminescence persists for about 3 days, and becomes undetectable to the naked eye about 72 hours after primordium initiation." source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mycena_chlorophos  There is a mushroom genus called Phallus. Heh. Hehehehehehe From Wikipedia: "The genus Phallus, commonly known as stinkhorns, are a group of basidiomycetes which produce a phallic, often foul-scented, mushroom, from which their name is derived."

Stinkhorn... Oh my.  Plants named after a phallus are usually quite smelly, like the amorphophallus titanum. Does amorphophallus titanum mean amorphic giant dick? Yes. [Mutinus caninus](http://i.imgur.com/Hk7YVjX.jpg) commonly known as the dog stinkhorn, is a small thin, phallus-shaped woodland fungus, with a dark tip.

Or a dog dick with shit on the tip. Also a strain of psylocybe cubensis called "penis envy". 

[NSFW](http://i.imgur.com/XkfDU.jpg) As a kid we used to get those puffball shrooms at our local golf course. Used to line them up across one another and try nail others with it. Sometimes they don't always "Pop".  as an adult, I look for the juvenile puffballs and cook the fuck out of them. /r/nocontext  /r/mycology If only they tasted like they look.  weird? fun fact about the Puffball Mushroom. In french we call them "Vesse-de-loup". Literally: Wolf fart.  In Norwegian they are called "ryksopp"... which is where the electro-pop music group behind "Skulls", "Eple" (the intro music for Mac OS X v10.3) and "Remind Me" took their name from. Most of them look like something you'd see in a coral reef. Which ones make you grow? Clearly the Amanita Muscaria As a mycologist it always warms my heart to see posts about mushrooms reach the front page.

Just a reminder though; when writing a name for a species in latin, the genus always begin with a capital letter, but the species-name always begin with a lowercase letter. So the correct way to write a name is i.e "Amanita muscaria", "Microglossum olivaceum", "Cordyceps clavulata", etc etc.

The systematics of the fungi kingdom is still pretty young, so a few of the names on the list might already be outdated. For example the genus "Lepiota" was recently broken down into several genus and species moved to completely different genus due to DNA analyses. So just because the fungi look alike (or taste alike in some matters), that doesnt mean that they have been related for the last 50 million years.

 My band will be called: Fungallica

first album: eat them all. Followed by Ride the Toadstool, Master of Fungus, and ...And Mushrooms for All [6 Ways MUSHROOMS Can SAVE the WORLD - Paul Stamets - TED](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_5gUSyKTCx4) Nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope.... nope....

I can't stand fungus, I may have an illogical fear of it...

EDIT: Its not the false phobia Tyrpophobia.  I just understand how the spores can get anywhere, and grow anything anywhere. Me too buddy. Come into these threads to reassure myself I'm not the only one and have never left disappointed. Thank you for being the one person on the internet who doesn't diagnose themself with a phobia when something creeps them out.  Its not a phobia, what some people fail to realize.  Its just a natural biological revulsion to disease, and its stronger in some people. I do get grossed out by holes.  But thats not why I don't like mushrooms.  The mystical world ON mushrooms How did we ever figure out which ones we can eat?  By eating them I suppose Watched what the animals ate and what they didnt eat.  Number 21, oh Amygdala! Can anyone explain what is happening in image 22? Was that mushroom shot or did it explode on it's own accord? That's the puff ball. While the mushroom is fully capable of doing that on its own, as that is how is spreads is spores, I think its likely it was poked or struck with something. some of those look like they would absolutely kill you What is it that comes out of the puffball mushrooms?  spores Happiness  I remember stomping on those puffball mushrooms all the time when I was a kid.  What makes all of these part of the same family? Because they are all fungi? Serious question. They are part of the same Kingdom. There are only 6 kingdoms so it's pretty broad.

The relationship between some may be as vast as between you and a shrimp. More vast, honestly. We have a ton in common with shrimp.  We are both delicious in cocktail sauce.  I had a very hard fought battle with Clathrus Ruber that started taking over a portion of my garden. I guess the mulch I got had some spores in there. I was relieved to find out that they are not poisonous (my dog was very interested in them because they stink like death), but  they really thrived in the south florida summer. I feel compelled to taste all these to level my alchemy.  Just watching them makes you trippy. Yummy I like shrooms but I think the amanitas are the only ones pictured here that will give you a (albeit unpleasant) trip.  Stick to cubes &lt; cyans These mushrooms are like birds of paradise in fungi world. Stunning photography. No Psilocybin??   Making my skin crawl.... So...can I eat any of these? Those capitalized specific epithets kill me. Every Mushroom in the world is edible, some you can only eat once though. I wonder which one gives me the best kind of trip  The one that will take you to our lord and savior Jess. To be fair, look up "The Sacred Mushroom and the Cross" and you'll find smarter people than we are believing that to be true. So, basically this guy's theory was that God was imagined by people who were hallucinating, specifically on mushrooms.

Everyone treated him like he was insane, and the book is referred to as "ludicrous".

Sounds like the theory is actually reasonable, to me. There's also the pretty crazy "stoned ape" theory that around the time our ancestors started coming down from the jungles and trees into grasslands they started finding mushrooms and eating them and that the synesthesia (the blurring of boundaries between senses) the psilocybin mushrooms caused led to language, the ability to form mental pictures from words and things like that. That's absolutely incredible. I had no idea mushrooms could be so interesting. Never gave them a second thought until now. I'm gonna take a wild guess that I don't live in the same country as any of these awesome things. Fungi are amazing organisms.  So amazing that they have their own Kingdom branch! i'm guessing the red and white makes you bigger, while the green and white one gives you 1 extra life? &gt; Bonus: Already look like I'm from the 1850s

EDIT: You get karma for the weirdest stuff, man. only the tie-dye gives it away. That's not tie-dye, it's a pattern he picked up from the Orientals.  so then... Thai-dye? [deleted] Siam-dye of course was first introduced in The King and Dye Everybody pack up, we're done here. Anna was one of the original Pranksters. Hello :D Its an older account sir, [so it checks out.](http://i.imgur.com/GLcE8.gif)  *the Orient Sure, but it was a Chinaman that sold it to him. He brought it with him from the Orient.   Dude, chinaman is not the preferred nomenclature. Asian-American, please. Walter, this isn't a guy who built the railroads here. The Chinaman is not the issue here, Dude He peed on the Dude's rug. I'm the dude, man.  Hate to throw a chink in your argument here, but I believe you're mistaken. My friend, who admittedly has a slanted view on things, is perfectly fine being called Bob. So racially he's pretty cool? As a Chinaman-American, I say it's not wasiss. Hey, I'm a big fan of your blog. Agreed this pic will confuse the hell out of some historian in 2150. "funny, that fabric only appeared in 1948 but this pic is from the 1850s..."

they'll probably think you're a time traveler, [like this guy in shades](http://i.kinja-img.com/gawker-media/image/upload/s--vQw5YrXR--/c_fit,fl_progressive,q_80,w_636/193d63yf1jo89jpg.jpg).
 uhhh...What is this magic? I've never seen this photo. Do you have a backstory? Its the opening of a bridge in 1940 in British Columbia. The guy is wearing leather side shields on his glasses but in low resolution they look like the wraparound shades popularized in the late 20th century. The shirt that looks like a modern graphic silk screen t-shirt he is wearing is actually a hockey sweater for the Montreal Maroons and it looks like he has a wool sweater with a zipper over it.

http://www.snopes.com/photos/supernatural/hipster.asp Nice breakdown. A- Harsh grading. What would have earned him the A? Nudity. He could have been naked when he wrote that comment.. [Snopes](http://www.snopes.com/photos/supernatural/hipster.asp) does a good job breaking it down. It's not fake - it might have just been a bloke with an unusual fashion sense back in the day.  &gt; TRUE: A photograph shows a group of people at the re-opening of the South Fork Bridge in 1941.

&gt; FALSE: The circled man in the photograph is a time traveler.

lol. You can't prove it, though, Snopes. You can't! You could say his fashion sense was... ahead of its time. So hes the original hipster? Protohipster Fuck you! Fuck you Micheal! Say it again! You've never seen the time traveling hipster? He travels back in time to before it was cool. and her fitbit or whatever kind of watch that is I didn't even notice the tie-dye! This makes it so much better! Next logical step, someone please use photoshop to color these and give them a modern look. That's one of the most 1850's ish looking beards I've ever seen.  This is clearly Walt Whitman's brother, Bert. http://i.imgur.com/FqTUC3Q.jpg?1 Needs more sepia. [That shit's dope.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BpXnbmy9WXM&amp;feature=youtu.be&amp;t=24s) Alright and PEACE Aight now you hold this bag of weed, and hold this gun. J-rock got caught pullin his goalie!  /r/bertstrips Why are they still wearing clothes?  To W.W... My star, my perfect silence. You're a big boy, gosh you're big chandler  Get with the times Bert! I shaved it today for the summer.  Pics or it didn't happen I added this one just for you. 

http://imgur.com/g7TJ9AG I think he/she wanted a picture of you without the beard. He did shave but a beard that magnificent grows back almost instantly.  http://i.imgur.com/6Zekv.gif on point I never knew that Homer had facial hair... What did you think was happening [when he let it grow out?](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/BzM92sfCMAAerEK.jpg) Tribbles. Did you think the area around his mouth and chin were just discolored? :) Yes. Homie likes to rim. You know, I never really thought about it.  More like a 5 o'clock shadow. What did you thought it was? A mega lip? Well, I mean, they have yellow skin... I just took it at face value and didn't really try to interpret it. I was thinking of Tim Allen in The Santa Claus. /r/retiredgif http://www.reddit.com/r/retiredgif/comments/357vt7/usmeeee_retires_a_gif_of_homer_shaving/ https://youtu.be/YrP8aOsM5RU He's implying that his beard was much longer and that pic is the result of him shaving He made a post with a slightly [less grown beard.](http://i.imgur.com/PMx2d.jpg) Why are you holding a mirror with coke residue on it? Samsung tablet.  Is that what they are calling it these days? But still coke? I was extremely disappointed :( That's not a shave, that's a trim. And one of the most 2010's ish Fitbits! Good Eye [deleted] It's hard to get out of an Adirondack chair. I guess that's kind of the point with them. There's too much smiling going on, too. If there's anything I've learned from old photographs, it's that no one smiled until after the discovery of color in the 1900s. I can see it now, that image getting passed around the internet out of context and then a news headline later on about some time traveling women with a Fitbit. You really wasted an opportunity to hold up an iPhone and claim you're a time traveler.  Next time for sure.  With reddit's attention spam, this will be front page again by next week. or last week

he is a time traveler after all Nah, next week he posted a photo of him as a time traveler with an iPhone, and got told to go back a week and try to trick people into thinking he's from the past. &gt;next week he posted  

Time travel has weird tenses &gt;attention spam

Not sure if typo or not. Both fit.  Do you really think its an "attention spam?" For all intensive purposes, I believe he does. for all in tents and porpoises* Irregardless, I think the statue of limitations is up on calling him out, but I could care less. But if you think he will get down voted for it, you've got another thing coming.  He should of warned him first. Their is defiantly a lot to loose in the karma business.  If it was an accident, it was a great freudian slip anyway. I did notice the FitBit though! You aren't supposed to smile in old pictures. You have to sit still for the 6 to 10 seconds so smiling is difficult to make look good.  We should post this to a colorize history sub and see how close they get the color I'm practicing so I gave it a shot: http://i.imgur.com/wtF7aG5.jpg

You can get far better results from the sub though. That's super cool! BUT did you use the original as a guide? I'd like to see what happens if you don't. How accurate are these colorized pictures, is the question after all! Wow, doesn't matter. This one looks really good. You should definitely stick with it. 

Edit: words...  That would be so meta. OMG I want this to happen. See how accurate they really can do it. [http://i.imgur.com/AhXL19J.gif](http://i.imgur.com/4XRoCqZ.gif) http://i.imgur.com/R2WaTBv.gif http://i.imgur.com/NdNGbXC.gif This is the best one i've seen. much better than having him sideways or broken fingered. 
 [It's the sam-](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-mWuXCdzhtG4/URbCe2BYjQI/AAAAAAAAAJs/nsjPjoQgQcM/s1600/Confused.gif) The fuck happened to his finger 

Oh..I just realized that it's pointing up to the other guy. Alright [5] That would actually be really interesting  Should repost on reddit in a few days and say its his granddad too Check out my great grandpa on /r/oldschoolcool! http://i.imgur.com/Pg5K1Zz.png This movie was a lot better than expected That's pretty sweet but I want to see some modern juxtapositions in there, like a picture of you standing in front of a new car or wearing Google glass or something  That thumps up in the last pic was pretty juxtapositiony.  Pretty sure that's not a thumbs up and he's just holding his lapel. Yeah, you're correct. Thumbs Up.  [But...](http://i.imgur.com/y2Zwk.gif) Hes so distraught #thumps This gives me nightmares from back when I used to read YouTube comments. His wife is wearing a fitbit? I think that counts. And pants... &gt; like a picture of you standing in front of a new car

He really dropped the ball by not having a delorean in the pics.   that would be awesome, especially if it just in the distance with just the nose poking out from under a tarp and a small kid in a puffer jacket and nikes, guaranteed viral material Youre going to confuse the fuck out of your future grandchildren wait a second... how OLD am I? what year is it? am I a time traveler too? 

I can just picture their confusion in my head right now you forgot the guns they always had guns in them too;-) And gold. They always had gold in them thar hills And dogs named Angus. I wanted our dogs in them but Ken said that they end up as blurs or with three heads as they usually wont sit still.  Huh. So maybe Cerberus had just one head, but no one could ever capture the moment correctly. Nice! This process is actually called ["Wet Plate Collodion."] (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collodion_process) A tintype is a type of collodion process, but on tin. Essentially a light sensitive liquid is poured on the surface of your choosing, usually glass or tin, and then while it is still wet is placed in a large format film camera and immediately exposed. Along with the cool old-timer look of these photos, the use of a large format camera, 8x10 in this case, allows for much greater detail than any digital camera currently could ever have.

This process is still very much alive and used by various fine art photographers. If you feel like looking into a few, here are a list of some favorites!

[Sally Mann](http://sallymann.com)

[Ian C. Minich] (http://iancminich.com)

[Jill Enfield] (http://jillenfield.com)

[Kurt Grung](http://kurtgrung.com/gallery.html?type=photography)

edit: Unfortunately with the size of these cameras and lenses, the exposure times can vary from seconds to hours. This often causes blurs and is therefore very hard to capture portraits. In earlier times, people were tied to boards and had neck holders to keep their bodies stuff, and this is also the reason hardly anyone smiled in these pictures.  Yes, this is 100% correct as I understand it.  Thanks! I was very happy to see something like this on my feed. I am an aspiring fine art photographer myself, trying to save up for a large format camera myself. So I am very glad people like you are keeping the art alive! Jeexyou I am also an aspiring fine art photographer as well. I taught myself the wetplate collodion proccess and have been making my own chemistry as well as equipment. If your handy you can save a lot of money by making most of the equipment yourself or adapting other equipment. Its a lot of fun and a great learning experience as well as addictive (Im not talking about the ether fumes). It really makes you understand and appreciate the photgraphic medium even more. Pretty soon I will have my store up and running with developer trays, plate holders, silver tanks and hand made leather aprons. Soon I hope to start building gigantic large format cameras. Check out some of them here https://instagram.com/ryanmccarthy_photography or http://imgur.com/a/5NutZ I'll bet you can make some good money for this type of photography. Its an expensive process, so getting paid the amount to even start doing it is pricey enough. But its fun! :] Tintypes are a nice alternative to using glass or other alternative processes.  Could you give a breakdown of the price? I'd like to try this. Check out the Bostick and Sullivan wet plate collodion kit, that has all the chemicals you need to get started (still have some left after starting last March)

Apart from that you'll need a large format camera and some sort of plate holder to hold the plate (4x5 press cameras aren't super pricey and you can get by with a modified 4x5 film holder to hold the plate) Too many words. Give us a number.  12? 4x5=$20 of 1850 dollars would be worth: $606.06 in 2014, but buy now and it can be yours for the [low price of $289](http://www.bostick-sullivan.com/cart/product.php?productid=1077&amp;) If you want to try this, you could try and look into attending a workshop. I know a photographer in Indy who does wet plate workshops, so maybe with any luck there'll be someone in your area too. It might be easier than tackling it all yourself, especially if you don't have the proper camera or darkroom. My kit runs around $500. The collodion is around $70 for enough to make about 500Ml (a year's worth) The silver nitrate is something like $40 for 500 Ml of a 10% bath. This will last me about 100 1/4 plate images before I have to replenish it,. The camera and lens I use was around $1K, but you can use a 4x5 or even a box camera like a brownie. I use cyanide fixer, it costs the moon, shipping is really high, but Hypo is cheap, like $10 for a huge supply. The glass or aluminum is cheap, I can get 19 1/4 plate tintypes (aluminum) for $4 I do this photography and no you don't make very good money. The process is really expensive and unless you live in a place where people appreciate this type of thing it's very hard to make a living at it. So, for what kind of prices can you do this? And do you happen to live near either Denver or Calgary?  I have a moustache that I want to immortalise.  Are you a giant? :) I am a member of /r/tall 6'7" The answer I was looking for. If you ever decide to get your beard shaved, I'd be interested how much they weigh.  I shaved it today for the summer. I neglected to weigh it however.  Can we get a clean face pic?  They look absolutely amazing! And besides where do you have the camera from? Would love to take photos like these one day. Ken a fellow here in town, Victoria BC, does this.  Tintype? Yes I believe that's correct. On glass.  i'm no photog, but IIRC tintype uses a metal sheet to produce a positive, and dry plate uses glass and produces a negative.

personally, i find silver nitrate to have a much older-timey feel, but this is pretty cool! Your wife looks like a time traveler in these pictures.  Dang man, you really are a scurvy dawg He He He STFU Bob Costas /* wife and me

Cool pictures,OP. For those confused, read the sentence without "my wife and." I cannot figure out why this is such a thing recently.  Everyone uses 'I' no matter what.  I get it, it's the internet, who gives a flying fuck.  But this mistake is now made all over TV shows, movies, news, everywhere.

I'm guessing it is because of how uneducated it sounds when 'me' is used as the subject so they overcompensate by using 'I' as a direct and indirect object. I notice this in people my age (20's) and wonder if it's because we had the "I" drilled into us so relentlessly in the context of "My brother and I went to the store..." that now people think they just always have to use "I." But I don't know why my own generation and younger would be more susceptible to this than previous ones. And I also don't think it's a valid excuse; I just wonder if that has anything to do with it. Came here to say this.  Loved the pics.  Upvote all the way.  But it's fourth grade grammar people.  Wife and ME. Way to fuck with future historians! Hipster level over 9000 The only way to tell they're not actually old is the fact that you both have pleasant looks on your faces.
  Are you sure you aren't a time traveller from the past? Aren't we all time travelers from the past??? *Bruh....* In the third pic you remind me of the big bad of True Detective! This is one of the coolest/interesting things I've seen on Reddit. Thanks for sharing. Wow, the camera really does add a couple hundred years.  Finally someone who could stare down Tywin Lannister. Anyone else notice how big this guy is in comparison to his wife? Theres a saying about how people from the past would call us gods if they saw us using our new technology. Yet when we see someone use their old technology we think they're a timelord. Hipster level 1000 Hold on the last guy gave me 9000 hipster points.  That was 9,000 XP.  At the higher levels of Hipster you need significantly more XP to level up. Nice! I know the reference well. 

AD&amp;D was my teen life.  Great pics! No biggie but in case OP or anyone cares: It's "...my wife and **me**..." wife and me Am I the only one here who doesn't give a shit about the grammar of the sentence in the title? Thank you, neither do me.  Me saw what you did there Wife and me (sorry, couldn't help myself). When I look at a old picture in a history text book or what not, I usually find it hard to realize that the person in the picture was real. I mean, obviously I know they were real, but the picture quality and colors are so rudimentary that in my brain its hard to make the connection that these historical people were real people that looked just like us. When I scrolled through your album it had the same effect. Almost making you look un-human. But when I saw the final picture which includes a "modern day quality" photo of you, I found it very interesting to realize mentally that even though the old fashion pictures might not look like it, you're in fact someone very real and very human. And more importantly: so are all the other old pictures I've ever seen. I love that the first two are fairly plausibly genuine, old photos. Then the third shot with the thumbs up (and wife's clothes) shattered the fantasy. Great shots, though. So where did you get the camera and find someone that new how to process the film?  How big are the prints? Ken a fellow I know did them. The glass plates are 8 x 10 I think.

edit: speeeling Great. Now mankind can fake history. How will I ever believe anything anymore. I can't even believe this.  The first thing I noticed is the quality of modern fabrics. When you compare this image that would otherwise look super old, the coat really gives it away because of how consistent the corduroy looks. Time Traveller! Quite amazing. Even though it is "old" technology, the results are nice. The depth of field is interesting. Everything looks more rounded. Holy shit.. you look majestic as fuck. This is really interesting. Cool pictures, thanks for sharing.  You shall be Reddit's ambassador. Should wear a grey coat, bowler hat and have a pipe and/or cane. I like your beard! :) Reminds me of my grandpa's. Damn, I miss him :/ Good to see you made it back from the war Jebediah I think you look so bad ass, even without the camera.

are you a lumberjack? I am Canadian, but sadly not a lumberjack. 100 years from now people may be very confused  I'm sure it will be lost in the 1000 comments, but here is the pic of him without the beard for those who are looking for it. *found from his comment history, submitted 2 years ago*

http://i.imgur.com/PMx2d.jpg These photos are gorgeous. Very well done.  Bravo!  OP  they are amazing pictures.  Were you tempted to dress in clothes that looked to be from the 1850's?  Caribbean cruise ships should install amphibious assault well decks so that passengers can swim like Marines and/or get eaten by sharks. Swimming in the open ocean is shit fucking terrifying.  Its the closest thing i can imagine to being in outer space.

You jump in, theres no ground, no bottom, you have no sense of distance or scale because everything is endless and you feel infinitesimally small.  About this time you realize how horrifically built you are for movement in this particular environment and get your ass back to the boat asap. 

 I regularly free dive in the 60- 70 foot range but those guys who go out to 150+... Lunatics . Lunatics all.

Edit. I might have some photos if anyones interested.

Edit : 2 OP delivers  [Photos!](http://imgur.com/a/vw89f) and spelling. I did that in Tahiti while trying for a few days, and then finally succeeding, at swimming with humpback whales. Really spooky being a few miles offshore in water thousands of feet deep and look down. Just clear empty blue.  
  
The guides tell everyone to always stay in a tight bunch, only after being out a couple days I asked if it was because of sharks, specifically oceanic white tips, and he said yes. Apparently they sometimes come across pretty big ones between the islands and they need to get everyone out of the water quickly...  
  
Edit to add photos I took: http://imgur.com/a/1omtP  
A GIF from a video (I'm in the blue shorts): http://i.imgur.com/W9Cg7o1.gifv Oceanic white tips and tigers,  holy shit i hope i never see one of them while im in the water.  You ever read that guys story about loosing his friend to White tips?  Reading that story makes your palms sweaty.  Just horrific. 

edit: add link 
http://www.undercurrent.org/blog/2009/09/10/diving-shark-attack/ I'd love to read it. You have a link?

edit: I don't know if **[this](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-476103/The-jaws-massacre-How-900-stricken-men-surrounded-killer-sharks.html)** is it or not, but god damn it's still a crazy story. This is the story I was talking about.

http://www.undercurrent.org/blog/2009/09/10/diving-shark-attack/

this guy is a fucking LEGEND in the diving world. Warning can be hard to get through. I'm not the poster above, but I think this may be it: (1 of 2)

EDIT: Just read it. Harrowing stuff.

Here's the full story as it appeared in several books:

SHARK ATTACK!
by
Bret Gilliam

included in Marty Snyderman book "GREAT SHARK ADVENTURES!"
release date 1999
and "MARK OF THE SHARK"
release date 2003
additionally published in Outside, Scuba Times, Rodale's Scuba Diving and many other magazines worldwide


Be forewarned. There's no traces of my trademark dry humor to found in this story and there's no happy ending. It's probably as close as I've come to my trip to Valhalla. In October of 1972 it happened like this:

Rod Temple and Robbie McIlvaine were waiting for me when I drove up to the beach at Cane Bay on St. Croix's north shore. This area of the Virgin Islands had some of the best wall diving in the eastern Caribbean and the drop off was an easy swim from shore eliminating a long boat ride from Christiansted. We unloaded our gear and began to dress under the shade of the palms while a dozen or so tourists watched with interest. Diving was still not an every day sport for most people and the double tanks and underwater camera equipment held a certain fascination. 

We were setting off to recover some samples from a collecting experiment we have placed on the wall for a local marine science lab. Six days before we had positioned our large support float right over the drop off with the research vessel and carefully loaded our sediment traps, nets and lines so they'd be ready for positioning in various locations in the shallow patch reef and the deep wall. Today we planned to inspect one project at 210 feet and shoot some photography of the area. Rod transferred the dive profile and decompression information to his slate as Robbie and I rounded up the remainder of the equipment and walked into the warm ocean to begin our leisurely surface swim to the float station about 300 yards offshore.

We'd done Cane Bay hundreds of times in the last two years both for work and for fun and this October morning was no different than scores of others as we snorkeled over the clear sand a few feet beneath our fins. As usual, Rod struck a livelier pace and forged on ahead while we wallowed in his wake towing the photo gear and another plexi-glass sand trap the lab wanted set in the chute that spilled over the wall.

Reaching the float, Robbie retrieved the snap swivels that would anchor the trap into our rope grid strung on the wall face. Rod reviewed the deco schedule, "Look, if we can get this thing set up and check out the project at 210 in fifteen minutes, we can save a lot of decompression. Can you do the photos in that time frame if I run the lines on the plexi trays?"
2

"Sure," I replied, "but don't go wandering off in case Robbie needs help getting snapped in with the trap. That thing's a ***** to swim with."

"No problem," Rod smiled back. "I don't mind doing the heavy work for you lazy Yanks." 

His British enthusiasm belied the fact that Robbie and I were about twice his size and strength although he was older and more experienced. We both gave him an "up yours" salute knowing full well that any heavy lifting always came our way while Rod handled the paperwork. As the time keeper and dive leader, he would keep track of our dive profile, work in progress, remaining air status, and then run the deco schedule. 

He eased away from the float and begin to swim the short distance over the deep blue that marked the drop off. The visibility was great, over 125 feet horizontally and even better looking up and down. A mild swell wrapped around the point and the sea was calm. Two of the Navy vessels that we worked with on submarine listening tests were just a few miles offshore and we could hear their acoustical sound generators pinging away as we descended. 

Rod settled in on top of the wall at 100 feet and we joined up to check gauges before slipping over in a gentle glide to the first work station at 180 feet. Robbie re-arranged the open ends of the traps to aim in the west quadrant this week and I fired off photos to record the scene. Most of the scientists who contracted us didn't do much diving themselves and they insisted on reams of photography so they could get an accurate idea of conditions in the deep water zones they were studying.

Signaling that we were finished, Rod led us over the coral buttresses and came to rest next to the deep project. It had slid a bit deeper during the week so Robbie and I eased it back into position and hoped it would stay put this time. This occupied our attention for most of ten minutes when Rod excitedly tapped me on the shoulder to point out the approach of two oceanic white tip sharks. This was nothing new to us as we dove with sharks routinely but it was rare to see these open ocean species in so close to shore. They passed within about ten feet of us and I shot a few photos as they swam off to the east.

We finished up the required observations and Rod filled out the field logs on his slate. Right on schedule he indicated, we were going to get out with only about 20 minutes deco it looked like. Robbie started up first and pointed out the sharks again as they swam by him headed over the coral and down into the sand chute. I remember thinking how strange it was to see oceanic white 
3



tips right here on the wall at Cane Bay. It was kind of like walking off your back porch and seeing an African lion when you expected an alley cat. 

We'd had our fair share of nasty encounters with white tips when we worked offshore. They frequently bit our equipment, the steel cables deployed from the research vessel, and even the shafts and propellers on occasion. We were convinced that they would bite us as well once they got going and never turned our backs on them without another diver riding shotgun. But these two didn't seem to pay us any attention and I turned to begin the ascent behind Robbie.

Our plan called for Rod to be the last guy up. I rendezvoused with Robbie at about 175 just over a ledge and we both rested on the coral to wait for him to join us. He was late and Robbie fidgeted pointing to his pressure gauge not wanting to run low on air. I shrugged and gave him a "what am I supposed to do" look and we continued to wait. Suddenly Robbie dropped his extra gear and catapulted himself toward the wall pointing at a mass of bubble exhaust coming from the deeper water. 

We both figured that Rod had some sort of air failure either at the manifold of his doubles or a regulator. Since my air consumption was lower, I decided to send Robbie up and I would go see if Rod needed help. As I descended in the bubble cloud, Robbie gave me an anxious OK sign and started up.

But when I reached Rod things were about as bad as they could get. One of the sharks had bitten him on the left thigh without provocation and blood was gushing in green clouds from the wound. I was horrified and couldn't believe my eyes. He was desperately trying to beat the 12 foot animal off his leg and keep from sinking deeper. I had no idea where the second shark was and lunged to grab his right shoulder harness strap to pull him up.

Almost simultaneously the second shark hit Rod in the same leg and bit him savagely. I could see Rod desperately gouging at the shark's eyes and gills as he grimly fought to beat off his attackers. With my free hand I blindly punched at the writhing torsos of the animals as they tore great hunks of flesh from my friend in flashes of open jaws and vicious teeth. Locked in mortal combat, we both beat at the sharks in frantic panic. And then they suddenly let go. I dragged Rod up the sand chute, half walking and half swimming. Once clear of the silt I could see Robbie about 100 feet above us looking on in horror. He started down to us as I lifted Rod off the bottom and kicked with all my might toward the surface.
 (2 of 2)

4



But in less than fifteen seconds the first shark returned and hit him again and began towing us both over the drop off. The attack had probably only lasted a minute at this point but Rod had lost a huge amount of blood and tissue and had gone limp in my grasp. I was still behind him clutching his right harness strap as the second larger shark hit him again on the opposite side down around the left calf. Like the other, this shark bit and hung on as we tumbled down the wall face.

We were dropping rapidly now completely out of control. My efforts to kick up were fruitless as the sharks continued to bite and tear at their victim, all the while dragging us deeper. I felt Rod move again to fend off another attack and my hopes soared upon realizing that he was still alive. I clung briefly to the edge of the drop off wall to arrest our rapid descent. The coral outcropping gave us some slight protection and for a moment the attacks stopped. 

Both sharks retreated into the blue and I watched them circle our position from about ten feet away. To my horror I saw one shark swallow the remains of Rod's lower left leg right before my eyes. The other gulped a mouthful of flesh it had torn off. I tried to push Rod into the coral in an effort to shield him from another attack but there was nothing to afford any real shelter. As I turned away from the waiting predators, Rod and I came face to face for the first time during the attack. He shook his head weakly and tried to push me away. I grabbed for his waist harness for a new grip and felt my hand sink into his mutilated torso. There was no harness left to reach for. He had been disemboweled. 

Shrieking into my mouthpiece in fury I pulled him from the coral and took off pumping for the surface with him clutched to my chest. Immediately the sharks were on us again. I felt the larger one actually force me to one side as it savagely sought to return to the wounds that gushed billows of dark blood into the ocean around us. Rod screamed for the last time as the second shark seized him by the mid-section and shook him. The blue water turned horribly turbid with bits of human tissue and blood. Once we were turned completely over and I felt Rod torn away from me.

I watched his lifeless body drift into the abyss with the sharks still hitting him. The attack had started around 200 feet. My depth gauge was pegged at 325 feet now but I knew we were far deeper than that. The grimness of my own situation forced itself on me through a fog of narcosis and exertion. 



5

That's when I ran out of air. I think that subconsciously I almost decided to stay there and die. It seemed so totally hopeless and my strength was completely sapped. But I put my head back and put all my muscle into a wide steady power kick for the surface. I forced all thoughts to maintaining that kick cycle and willed myself upward. 

After what seemed like an eternity I sneaked a look at my depth gauge: it was still pegged at 325 feet. I sucked hard on the regulator and got a bit of a breath. Not much, but it fueled my oxygen starved brain a bit longer and I prayed my legs would get me up shallow enough to get another breath before the effects of hypoxia shut my systems down forever.

There's really no way to describe what it's like to slowly starve the brain of oxygen in combination with adrenaline induced survival instincts. But I remember thinking if I could just concentrate on kicking I could make it. After a while the sense of urgency faded and I remember looking for the surface through a red haze that gradually closed down into a tunnel before I passed out. The panic was gone and I went to sleep thinking "damn, I almost made it." 

I woke up on the surface retching and expelling huge belches of expanding air. Apparently the small volume of air in the safety vest I wore had been enough to float me the final distance and save my life. But I still had to deal with an unknown amount of omitted decompression and the certainty that I was severely bent.

Swimming to shore as fast I could, I felt my legs going numb. By the time I reached the beach I could barely stand. A couple on their honeymoon waded out and dragged me up on the sand. I gasped out instructions to get the oxygen unit from our van and collapsed. In an incredible burst of good fortune, it turned out the wife was an ER nurse from Florida and understood the pathology of decompression sickness. They got a steady flow of oxygen into me and ran to call the diving emergency numbers that I directed her to on the dive clipboard.

I drifted away again into unconsciousness and was revived at the airport where a med-evac flight was waiting to fly me to Puerto Rico. But the Navy chamber was down and it was decided to take me to the only other functional facility up on the island's northwest corner nearly 200 miles farther away. But the flight crew was afraid I wouldn't make it when we ran low on oxygen shortly after passing San Juan. So they had the police stop traffic on the main divided highway and landed on the road where a waiting Coast Guard helicopter snatched me away to the hospital roof. 

6




Two days later I was released but with residual numbness in my arms and legs, substantial hearing loss, and legal blindness in my right eye that persists to this day. 

Robbie's last view of Rod and me was as we were dragged over the wall in a cloud of blood by the sharks. He never saw my free ascent and so reported us both killed when he got to shore. It was not until I called my dad from the hospital that he knew I had survived. A week later we had Rob's memorial service at the beach. I resumed diving the next day. His body was never recovered.








Aftermath: this attack in 1972 was widely reported and shark experts speculate that the oceanic white tips may have been attracted and then stimulated by the low frequency sound in the water from the nearby submarine testing. The previous deepest depth that a diver survived a free ascent from was 180 feet. Gilliam was probably closer to 400 feet. He was cited for heroism by the Virgin Islands government for risking his own life to try to save his partner. In 1993, British television (BBC) produced a special on the incident as part of a series called "Dead Men's Tales". 










Author notes: 

Bret Gilliam was professionally involved in the diving industry for 35 years and retired in 2006. Since beginning diving in 1958 he has logged over 17,000 dives. He can be contacted at bretgilliam@gwi.net yeah, thats the one.  Bret Gilliam is a Legend. I've heard Tahiti is a magical place I am a commercial diver I have been to close to 2000 feet while in a atmospheric diving suit and you feel like you are alone on different planet from the rest of humanity.   I considered doing underwater welding, being both a diver and a welder. Older guys that did it convinced me not to do it. I know there are other jobs available for commercial divers, but I figured the risks were all the same. 

What made you decide to be a commercial diver? I love the water and I don't like to talk much so getting paid to be in the water and being left alone for hours at time is was first attracted to me to commercial diving.   &gt; Swimming in the open ocean is shit fucking terrifying. Its the closest thing i can imagine to being in outer space.

I think it's even worse for one reason: *The ocean is full of huge whales and sharks and octopuses who could fuck with you whenever they want and you can't even see them approaching.*

I'd rather sit in outer space in a spacesuit for like 3 hours than in the open ocean for 15 min. You say that now, but just wait til you first glimpse a space-octopus. Oh please Brian Williams and I swim the English channel every weekend. When my dad served in the navy he said every time they went swimming they'd have to get a marksman to watch over them in case a shark came...he knew because he was terrified of sharks and was always the marksman... we dive with sharks sometimes,  often its no big deal, in fact it hasn't been a big deal for me yet, but it does pucker your butt-hole up. I am an amazing swimmer. I pride myself in that. However, in open ocean, I'm sure I would have a panic attack and drown. Even "shallow" lakes freak me out.. for me comfort is all about seeing the bottom.  If I can see the bottom, I'm good. Talking about sharks, what the hell is that thing at the bottom left of the photo? If you zoom in it kinda' looks like a stingray. That be the sea playing tricks on ye Lens flare probably. You don't have Stingrays at the surface in the middle of the ocean. Its a dried water spot on the lens. If you look at the right side of 3/4 up the stern you see a similar discoloration. 

Source: I shoot a lot from my ocean kayak First thing I noticed as well, I'd be outta there! Looks fun though.  Bottom right?  That would be a person.  Did you mean the bottom left? Yeah my bad lol. I don't know how the hell I got that mixed up You had me looking for a while...  I thought I was blind. It's lens flare: http://www.voicefilm.com/star-trek-lens-flare.jpg
I'm a photographer. probably continuation of the lens flare? &gt; or get eaten by sharks.

I can just imagine the stereotypical drunk fat fuck from Ohio getting pulled under now.. that was oddly specific... I've been on too many cruises :\ There's always that fat guy from Ohio Have worked three years on cruise ships from all over the world. There is ALWAYS a fat guy from Ohio.  &gt; Have worked three years on cruise ships from all over the world

Good god man. I'm sorry.

Edit: Can you manage to bring the buffet out early? There's a whole $20 in it for you if you make it happen. 24 hour food, bro. What need we the buffet for? I've never been on a cruise ship, but I've been from (and lived in) Ohio all my life.  Can confirm, we have those fat people. Fat guys from Ohio verified. 

Source: Am from Ohio. Can confirm. Am fat. From Ohio. Been on multiple cruises. Let me guess, he's a buckeyes fan and mentions it a lot.  *THE* Ohio State.  Fuck ya FYI this isn't a carrier. It's an amphib. Most of those guys are probably marines, not sailors. The sailors are probably in RHIBs for shark watch.  I keep looking for the shark watch. [It's there, look again.](http://i.imgur.com/Y6L4pNQ.jpg) Damn that was slick Is it water proof? here I am thinking that shark watch is some military role for occasions like this...like someone is looking for sharks.  So I zoom in and am investigating the guys on the top of the ship.  I declare to myself that these are the guys. Thats their job atm.  Then I get to looking at all the faces.  Some happy, some almost despondent.  Then I see it. You sir, have made my day.  They're actually guys whose job at this moment is "shark watch,"  and it sounds like what it is, they watch for sharks.  With one teensy difference from what you probably expect. They are armed with some sort of high powered rifle. And you think to yourself, "oh, to shoot the shark." Nope,  because it's nearly impossible to correctly account for refraction of the water or the incredible speed of a shark. Those slow ass sailors in the water who have to stay on the surface and will conveniently be swimming directly at you making for an easy target, well that's no problem. So, the shark watch's actual job is to alert everybody their is a shark in the water, and shoot the person furthest away from the ship. 

Source: Was in the Navy for four years.  I had the opportunity to do this in the Arabian Gulf on the Enterprise, and the Seals were shark watch. I did not stray from the group.  I laughed so much at this. Thanks. [deleted] Call me dark then dark then This is a joke right? Seriously though, GIVE ME AND HONEST QUESTI, I mean answer. Yes this is real I was in the navy and stood shark watch with an m16 there would usually be two people on watch one in a RHIB and one on the ship over watching. And yes you shoot the person. I need a source. No offence this just sounds crazy. Right it sounds like a running inside joke.

Then theres always the dumbass that actually does it. I just got out in January, but I'm not really sure how I could provide proof if I was still in. I'll do some searching and see if I can find anything. For real, they would shoot one sailor to save the others? Yes. Wow, that's quite amazing. You would think they would have a better way of doing it. I don't believe that they shoot the person farthest away. This sounds like the kind of practice that is put in place to stop idiots swimming away from the group or getting separated. Has anyone seen it happen? Wait just no matter what? If a shark is spotted, the guy furthest from the ship gets shot? 

Also, is the purpose of this so that only one guy gets killed vs multiple people? Ah, I'm a dork. Can confirm. I did this in the Med while on deployment with the MEU. 

Except they flooded the well deck too so we could have a steel beach cook out. 

Sharks? We don't give a fuck about sharks.  That's actually kind of cool. I have a bunch of high school buddies who have gone off into various branches of the Military. Whenever they are on leave and come to visit they have some really neat stories to share and I am always surprised that you servicemen do get to have a lot more fun than I always assumed.

A buddy of mine went SWCC and he said a few times while in port and anchored they'd have a pilot take a helicopter up and they'd all treat it like a high dive and cannonball into the ocean with supersoakers and raid each others zodiacs and stuff. Kind of awesome. &gt; I am always surprised that you servicemen do get to have a lot more fun than I always assumed.

Ultimately its like any other job, happy employees will generally produce better work. A good commander and leadership team will know when to let their people do something fun that might get toward the edge of the regulations but is good for morale. When you're on long deployments and there's nothing to look forward to but more hard work and the possibility of dying, little things really make a difference.

When I was in Saudi Arabia for the first PGW, we got away with stealing some old cable spools and setting them up as card tables outside our tent- you weren't really supposed to put stuff between the tents, but they turned a blind eye to it. Made chairs out of sandbags, got it nice and comfy. Played spades, poker and even D&amp;D- better than having us moping around on our cots, you know?
 Looks like they deployed a net as well to prevent shark attacks  Looks more like a bunch of life vests tied together as a "stay in this area" marker. I still don't know if I liked swim call or shark watch more, RHIB or not.  I was a sailor and there were always as many Marines as Sailors, either on watch or swimming. We all wanted to tag a shark. But a bunch of people splashing about in the deepest of seas scares away any serious non-human threats. We had more encounters and fun with dolphins or porpoises than anything else. But the one manta ray brush was the most memorable. I wish I had a GoPro back in the day.   Yeah this is an LHD, right?  I can't tell from the back.
 Did you try to touch the bottom? I've done a swim call like this before down in panama. My buddy and I tried to see how far down we could go...its a crazy feeling where all you see is blue and nothing else, then you look up and see specs of legs moving. We surfaced and said never again.  It gets cold as fuck real quick too Until you realize how deep you've gone, then it starts to warm up real quick. The stories about free divers not knowing which way is up anymore scares the fuck out of me. Your brain can also go a little loopy if you dive too long. Follow the bubbles! good thinking!

I'll have to try and remember that next time im drowning in my nightmares :( this scared me thinking about stuff /r/thalassophobia/ Y'know, for guys that spend months on end on deck on a boat out in the ocean they seem surprisingly pale Are they even allowed to wear anything less than full uniforms? Pants and long sleeves is pretty much it. Thanks for confirming! Army vet here. The farmers tan was horrible especially when I was stationed at Fort Bliss. Soldier tan: dark brown hands, light brown arms, pale white shoulders and chest.  i actually didn't think of that!! maybe that's the reason Plus a lot of jobs on ship have no reason to go topside. My SO is in supply, for example. Unless there's an underway replenishment going on, most of his work is going to be inside the ship or in the hangar bay where you're still not getting direct sunlight. There are other rates that probably spend even more time inside (thinking of combat people who basically go from combat to berthing and back again for 7 months). its so strange how lives can be completely opposite. when my squadron goes to the boat most of us spend like no time below decks. On the roof all day, go to the mess decks to eat and come back. I went deeper than the mess decks once and got scared some radiation monster was going to eat me. It's funny, a lot of people keep saying this. 

If you're on a ship, especially if you're a Marine, you spend 99% of the time below deck, either in your berthing, at chow, on watch, or at the ship library.  You only see sunlight if you run on the flight deck between flight quarters, or you can use the weatherdecks (side walkways outside the ship) to smoke.

So basically it's like 1-2 months inside a giant metal town and six days or so of liberty at some random port. You'd be suprisingly how little sunlight you actually see. Unless your rate involves you being on deck you see very little sunlight. I've talked to people who said they had to be reminded to go get some sunlight each day because they'd spend the entire day below deck. Marines are kept off the weatherdeck *and out of sight* unless there's an emergency that necessitates a marine. Who is the person in the life preserver, and how much did you harass them after you found out they can't swim in the navy?

Edit: changed to gender neutral

Edit 2: how can English be if theys no words? Those aren't sailors. Most of those swimming are Marines that are attached to the ship as the amphibious assault force.  Same question but with the word marines replacing sailorsr. You need to be able to swim in the Marines, or you don't pass training  Same with the Navy.  Ok, nobody yet has pointed out how all the white guys are in the water and every single black guy in the picture is standing on the edge of the boat, looking out.

Either they know there are sharks and are thinking all the white guys are stupid, or the stereotype holds true Far right in the middle is a black person. 2, actually. Probably light duty of some sort, sprained ankle, etc. And to be allowed to go out into the water, the CO said they'd have to wear the preserver.

Or someone else screwed up in boot camp and didn't give a fuck about her and passed her in swim qual even though she didn't actually pass. Could be fatigue but wanted to try out the waters. Or just chill and float.  &gt; Same question but with the word marines replacing sailorsr.

ALL HAIL SAILORZOR! Green PT shorts, dead giveaway. Not saying none of the others aren't sailors though.  OK but Marines should still be able to swim pretty well... Chances are he can swim but just wants a relaxing float instead This. Most of the time I just jump off the boat when I'm in the lake, but sometimes I just wants to float...and sometimes I'm just too drunk to not float.  I use life vest to just chill in the water. What's the big deal with wearing a life vest and just relaxing? Everyone here must like to doggy paddle the whole time they swim. i looked and no one has answered it fully yet

she isn't swimming with a live preserver .....it's attached to a string and she is being pulled back to the boat with it by the guy 2nd from the left

you are told if the safety personnel throws the life preserver at you to pull you in you take it

they either saw something that was a safety issue or she signaled that it she wanted to come in


source: former Marine

and before someone jumps in with the "once a Marine always a Marine"......stfu with that bullshit.  when someone says "former"  it just means they are no longer active duty Looks like a girl. Has a pony tail. And im surprised they let girls have that long of hair when theyre in the service. They put them in tight buns while in uniform. Is this a reference to the Village People's song "In The Navy"? It wasn't until I read your comment. No, it's a reference to the song Baby Got Back. The length of the hair doesn't matter, whether you can get it in regs matters.  There are guys with 1 inch long hair out of regs and there are women with 2 foot long hair who are in regs. Im sorry, I really am quite ignorant to military stuff... can you tell me what a reg is? Regulations.  There are regulations on everything, the size and color of earrings, color/type of glasses, etc.  

In fact, it's actually against regulations (might depend on who interprets it) for women to get a "high-and-tight" or shave their heads like GI Jane.  It's considered "faddish".

Ah yes, I just remembered a girl in our flight did that in BASIC.  Whenever she entered the dorm, we said "Gentleman entering the dorm!" which is what you said if a man entered (to warn people not to change clothes). was a little confused since everyone on Reddit is a dude.

We had a girl on our lacrosse team in college.  Locker rooms were always padlocked by the athletic dept, and it was a pain getting one of them to open it for you, so instead of having to bother getting two locker rooms opened, she changed with us.  Dudes from the shower with only a towel standing next to a girl in bra and panties.  Nobody gave a shit, she was our teammate.  Except for one midfielder.  They hooked up.

Was picturing a bald woman walking into a men's dorm. This what it was like in the Army. It's not like we all haven't seen it before and honestly nobody really cares. a girl playing mens lacrosse? what position? attack.  She could actually pass and throw better than half our team, so she started.  other team's defenses would give her shit, but she knew how to move the ball so she rarely got caught in a bad situation.  She could take a hit though.

actually, we played against another team that had a girl playing midfield once.  Everyone heard about it, and this girl was rather petite.  We all took note of her number so we didn't accidentally kill her, since we had a reputation for being a physical team.

In the middle of action this girl picked up the ball and our middie only saw the color of her jersey and laid her out.  She got helped off the field but was back in the game later.  Although, she played away from the middle of the field.

Our middie felt so bad for crushing her. i accidentally hip checked a girl playing hockey in high school. completely wiped her out and didn't realize until I saw the pony tail coming out the back of her helmet. 

it was a great hit though... &gt;  Except for one midfielder. They hooked up

It's dangerous to shit where you eat.  And if you're a submariner nothing really matters. Seen many women in uniform with hair up tight in a bun. Man, I love swimming in the deep ocean like that.  It's a feeling like no other. Horrifying? Humbling and liberating.  The ocean is just so damn big! I used to think like that before I heard about all the things swimming underneath ... Can't do it without getting scared anymore. Lol theres barely anything that will attack you, Specially in large groups.  &gt; barely I feel like even a 1% chance is too much. The ocean is too vast. That's like not going outside in Boston because there are dangerous everything  in Australia.  I've seen bigger. Me too! I love swimming in the open ocean! Which is odd, because I have a weird phobia about being around certain stuff in water. Open ocean, thousands of feet deep? I'm A-OK swimming in that. Ship wreck nearby, or oil rig, or almost anything made of metal underwater including the ship in this photo? I'll get tunnel vision, hyperventilate, and lose all reasoning. /r/submechanophobia 10/10, would never try. Once you can't touch the bottom, it's all the same.  10 feet or 1000 feet doesn't matter. Now, I do have to agree on this point, something about knowing there is 2000 feet of water under you makes it feel very different.  You can see how happy the two gingers are to be out in the sun.

Edit: wow, reddit.. Any excuse to get racist huh? I told you it was real!


Let's go back inside now This also applies to nukes on carriers. I miss the sun :( This isn't exactly reassuring considering I just got my nuke rating.  Don't worry man! You still have 2 years to wash out  Thank god! I was getting worried there for a minute.  On the one hand keeping us moist is necessary, on the other, I think the water might be a magnifying glass for the sun's cancer beams. Only for 5 minutes though. They gon bake The fuck is that in the bottom left of the picture?! Hell no! A wave's shadow. "It's a swamp gas reflected off of Venus' moon" Looks like you can see a tail of something moderately large in the bottom left of this photo. No thank you. I think thats a person You can't just point out a person's tail like that it's rude... All of the brothers are watching, it's like they can't swim or something! Nice try shark.  Not to worry. Looks like a flipper, or swim fin to me. That said, I can recall a number of "swim calls" from U.S. Navy ships when we were in the Caribbean and the Mediterranean. We always had a "shark watch," a Gunner's Mate with an M-16 posted in the bow of the ship's whale boat, patrolling the perimeter of the swimmers in the water. Fuck the shark cage. Sounds way more badass being protected by a marine with an M-16. Aren't bullets nearly useless after a few centimeters into water? Hence they are used to shoot the person being eaten by the shark. Just in the shoulder. so everyone else can continue their enjoyable &amp; refreshing swim. And once the shark is full he's ready to play! :D Wouldn't he have to wait an hour after his meal What if he remembers he wants dessert? I'd expect any of you to do the same for me. RICO! DO IT! Not small caliber like .22, they go a ways down in the water, anything big with high velocity just explodes into into hundreds of fragments when it hits the water. Terminal ballistics are fascinating! You are partly correct. It's mostly the velocity that matters when it comes to penetration and excessive fragmentation. For example "slow" shotgun slugs penetrate water deeply and are large caliber with considerable mass. While 5.56 rounds from an M-16 are light and small caliber, they have high velocity, and are shredded within a foot of entering the water.  Yeah, no.  I had lunch with our gunners mates on my ship.  I've seen them shoot.  

Would not trust.  LOL he'd probably shoot me to save the others.   Gunner's Mates are easily one of the best examples of rates who rely on one or two people per ship to justify their presence. And typically those few burn out so fast that the division just turns into an embarrassing mess.

Marksmanship is only the tip of that iceberg. But, the scariest part about that particular area is that GMs are frequently used to help conduct training for other sailors on marksmanship. Guys who don't don't even know how to properly zero a rifle are supposed to train my guys on how to shoot? Get the fuck out of here. The best example of how bad that rate is that would be easily observable is to watch them do weapon maintenance. Somehow it always involves about a gallon of CLP per weapon, fucking up the zero, and leaving as much carbon behind as possible. I suppose no one watched myth busters to see the effectiveness of bullets being shot into water. What you trying to do tickle the fucking shark?  

Even high powered, those bullets don't go far and lose their lethality almost immediately.  Better stay in the basement, just to be safe. "Hey, the captain remembered my birthday! He really does care!" Points for the ATLA reference Very few black people swimming compared to just watching. With life jackets on too. I guess what Chris Rock said about black people being scared to swim is true. It is. There is a lot of data to go with it. Black people don't typically learn how to swim. Even in areas where black families are more wealthy. It's simply not something parents typically teach their children, or enroll the kids in lessons for.  &gt; It's simply not something parents typically teach their children

Often because the parents don't know how to swim. There are no compulsory swimming classes in elementary school in the US?  Not that I've ever heard of. But what will you do when waterworld happens? Were there any black people in that movie? In Indiana we have swimmingly in gym, but anyone that doesn't already know how to swim just hang on the the edge of the pool.  Former Navy enlisted, and in boot many couldn't pass the Navy Third Class Swim Test. "We don't swim, we play in the pool" was the answer I got when I asked why. HA!  Noticed the same thing.  White dudes swimming, black dudes on deck (save 1 or two exceptions) very stark contrast. Everyone who is a Marine learns to swim in boot camp. Regardless of being dark green or light green.  I spot 1 in the water
 I like how it looks as though the guy in the back is summoning ship-lights from his sleeve.

http://i.imgur.com/B3FUlc2.png Practically all people on the ship are black, practically all people in the water are white.

Stereotypes = enforced. Oh good, someone said it. They are posted navy crew members. Boatswains. 

Their vest colors tell you what they are responsible for.  If I remembered I could tell you. 

You just don't open a huge hole in a boat and not have navy all around monitoring pumps and dials.  ...Japanese submarine slammed two torpedoes into our side, Chief. We was comin' back from the island of Tinian to Leyte... just delivered the bomb. The Hiroshima bomb. Eleven hundred men went into the water. Vessel went down in twelve minutes. Didn't see the first shark for about a half an hour. Tiger. Thirteen footer. You know, you know that when you're in the water, chief? You tell by lookin' from the dorsal to the tail. Well, we didn't know. 'Cause our bomb mission had been so secret, no distress signal had been sent, huh. They didn't even list us overdue for a week. Very first light, chief. The sharks come cruisin'. So we formed ourselves into tight groups. You know it's... kinda like 'ol squares in battle like uh, you see on a calendar, like the battle of Waterloo. And the idea was, the shark goes to the nearest man and then he'd start poundin' and hollerin' and screamin' and sometimes the shark would go away. Sometimes he wouldn't go away. Sometimes that shark, he looks right into you. Right into your eyes. You know the thing about a shark, he's got... lifeless eyes, black eyes, like a doll's eye. When he comes at ya, doesn't seem to be livin'. Until he bites ya and those black eyes roll over white. And then, ah then you hear that terrible high pitch screamin' and the ocean turns red and spite of all the poundin' and the hollerin' they all come in and rip you to pieces. Y'know by the end of that first dawn, lost a hundred men! I don't know how many sharks, maybe a thousand! I don't know how many men, they averaged six an hour. On Thursday mornin' chief, I bumped into a friend of mine, Herbie Robinson from Cleveland. Baseball player, Bosun's Mate. I thought he was asleep, reached over to wake him up. Bobbed up and down in the water, just like a kinda top. Up ended. Well... he'd been bitten in half below the waist. Noon the fifth day, Mr. Hooper, a Lockheed Ventura saw us, he swung in low and he saw us. He's a young pilot, a lot younger than Mr. Hooper, anyway he saw us and come in low. And three hours later a big fat PBY comes down and start to pick us up. You know that was the time I was most frightened? Waitin' for my turn. I'll never put on a lifejacket again. So, eleven hundred men went in the water, three hundred and sixteen men come out, the sharks took the rest, June the 29, 1945. Anyway, we delivered the bomb. This is epic  Damn look at that amphib How many black people jumped in? Cause Im black and a strong swimmer, but open water got me fucked all the way up. When my unit did this the dark green marines were the first in. My unit was 50/30/20 - light green, dark green and tan marines.  http://i.imgur.com/dlvvbvz.png Deep water is scary as shit to me. Not sure why. Technically anything deeper than about 5 and a half feet is enough to drown me, but the idea of getting REALLY REALLY drowned is scarier. 

Also, I feel that ginger blokes pain. I know how uncomfortable it is to have to go out into the sun because everyone else is.  I hate not being able to swim this looks like fun  There's probably swimming lessons you could take if you really wanted to learn it. Diving from the top of that into the water seems like it'd be pretty awesome.  That was so much fun. I did it on a carrier.  Jump 30 feet into the water, float effortlessly, and relax in the thought that there may be miles of water underneath you.  All that splashing in deep water, it's like a dinner bell / come check us out for sharks. The important question is did anyone jump off the top? I just noped the fuck out.  Apparently the thought of swimming in the ocean terrifies me. That's fucking terrifying. There could be a kraken, cthulu or all sorts of shit down there in the middle of the ocean.

I say this as an animal lover and someone that's lived by it his whole life but god damn this is my fear. It's ironic because the deep sea floor fascinates me to no end as well. hard to believe that enormous ship is floating, I mean I understand the physics of it, but still. Thats like a building just sitting on the water. http://imgur.com/vJI79sk Eleven hundred men went into the water. Vessel went down in twelve minutes. Didn't see the first shark for about a half an hour. Tiger. Thirteen footer. You know, you know that when you're in the water, chief? You tell by lookin' from the dorsal to the tail. Well, we didn't know. 'Cause our bomb mission had been so secret, no distress signal had been sent, huh. They didn't even list us overdue for a week. Very first light, chief. The sharks come cruisin'. So we formed ourselves into tight groups. You know it's... kinda like 'ol squares in battle like uh, you see on a calendar, like the battle of Waterloo. And the idea was, the shark goes to the nearest man and then he'd start poundin' and hollerin' and screamin' and sometimes the shark would go away. Sometimes he wouldn't go away.  What is the red thing under water on the bottom left? WHAT THE FUCK IS THAT IN THE BOTTOM LEFT Why the hell is everyone crying sharks?  Those chances are very slim. Slim &gt; 0 Is that an LHD?

I was on the Bataan for a year.  Rusty Nickel baby! That's a load of seamen.






I'll let myself out.  can i have the email of that red head, please? This is the only reason I want to join the Navy. We had our swim call cancelled due to sea snakes in the Gulf of Aden :( I don't think it would've been that refreshing anyway considering the water temp was around 95 degrees Fahrenheit all summer.  Sure you claim it's a bar, but I know a sex dungeon/torture chamber when I see one. It's not a sex dungeon! It's a pleasure chamber! Guess it depends on which end of the stick you're on. Maybe for YOU it does. Giggity Sex dungeons don't have sweet waterfalls to take you to them. Lots of AH fans in here today Yea that episode's only been out for like two days too... There's even a sign that says "Pleasure Chamber"!  Look!  It's got a chandelier and everything! There's a lady stroking a giant pig monster. And that's clearly a penis i love when /r/roosterteeth leaks http://gfycat.com/WideeyedKeenAphid That's a pleasure chamber if I've ever seen one. What ever you say, Michael. At least the waterfall and paintings make it feel warmer That's not a sex dungeon, it's Dr Kleiner's lab. So, it's a sex dungeon? Lamar's not called the head-humper for nothing! Lamar gives good head? [deleted] I legitimately do not understand what you would use those for? 

Ass stuff? 

Edit: Guy above me deleted his comment. He suggested using some[ sort of weird latex sex gloves](http://www.reddit.com/r/AmazonWTF/comments/353n1m/spiky_sex_gloves/) If you have to ask, it's probably butt stuff.  I prefer when people ask prior to butt stuff  i like it when people ask about it, even though they know the answer That's a yes. 