"What does success look like in this role?" Worked wonders for me!  I always use this one, too. It serves multiple purposes. It clears up any miscommunications about what the job is or what's expected. Hours required, tasks required etc. It gives you an idea about how well suited you are to the job or the management style. And it lets them know you're a go-getter. win win.   Perfect response to a perfect response. 

This is some great advice for prospective employees. It shows your motivation, ambition, dedication and passion in one simple question.  Similarly, I always end with something along the lines of "Is there anything about my resume/candidacy that you feel would prevent me from getting/doing this job?"

I've had many people have great interviews just to find out they were never really being consider because of some (often mistaken) issue with their application.  This, way you get it out in the air right up front and can address it. &gt; Is there anything about my resumethat concerns you?

Is how I phrased it at my last interview. &gt; Is there anything about my resume that concerns you?

Sitting on the other side of the table I don't like the "is there any concerns about my resume" question.  It feels like some sort of dare.  It also lacks tact.  If there is a gap between your resume and the job description then analyze that and bridge the gap for me.

Think about the social situation.  I can't divulge my personal feelings about your candidacy to you.  There are not only legal problems, but also interpersonal reasons for that if you get hired.  I don't want to have said oh you appear to suck at this before I need to deal with you everyday for years.

I've had this dropped on me several times.  It makes me as the interviewer feel uncomfortable at the end of the interview.  Not a good thing. It makes you as the interviewer feel uncomfortable? Try getting asked shit like "Why SHOULDN'T we hire you?" Is that *your* blood on your shirt?  
*Some* of it, yeah... This is the non-convoluted, not douchey version of

&gt; Hypothetically you offer me the position and I accept. A year from now I have my annual performance review, Ive exceeded expectations and you're very impressed. What are things that I have done which have made that impression?

 Or, to put a different spin on it:

&gt;What are the limitations of your expectations of me so that a year and half from now when I have my annual performance review 6 months late, I can call you on your bullshit for expecting me to live up to unrealistic standards of perfection that are not documented or backed up by any substance whatsoever, and were never communicated to me in the first place?

I may or may not be dealing with this exact issue right now..... Purely hypothetical, of course... Oh this. I run the front desk and dispatch at my company. I think I'm kicking ass, but then one day my boss comes in and asks why I haven't been calling our customers with past due balances. I keep a log of incoming invoices and check them for accuracy but then I pass them to accounts receivables. Turns out I was supposed to be doing that part of AR instead of the woman we have doing AR.

Asking this question will hopefully cut down on these moments. Could you give an example of a typical working day? I asked this today

"You come in and it's either easy as shit or its all fucked up. It's a toss up really"

Sounds like a fun place. [deleted] [deleted] Yup, that's pretty much it. Today is one of those days where I've done nothing but reply to one email and take one 5 minute phone call. Time for lunch. And then there's my job as a VIP card dealer in a major casino. Generally I'm sitting watching TV or chatting with staff, and occasionally I'll actually have to deal a game. Sometimes.
Pay's pretty good too. Do you just get paid a salary then? VIP games may be different, but in general what I've gleaned is the floor crew is paid hourly plus tips pooled.  So you don't do all that well most of the time, but make a lot when some gazillionaire rolls in from Dubai or Macau or wherever and tosses around $14M at the roulette wheel and is putting up $1000 tip tries. Exploitation by employers is probably lower in the porn industry.  As a programmer, I wake up every day with a headache and say "I'm not doing this job forever". I also feel I always do disgusting stuff because my boss wants it that way. "Yea, Yea Tarblz we don't care how well this solution will work in two months, we want it working now"

- Two months later

"Tarblz we need someone to rewrite the shitty solution you used two months back" [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] That's not just programming.  
"Boss, we can't launch this - the prices are all funky, we need to re-do the whole thing and have a couple of guys manually datamine..."  
"But that'll take **AGES**!!!"  
"A couple of weeks, yes"  
"Do a workaround and we're launching this by weekend"

* Two months later

"Watnuts, why are some products selling at a loss. Why are the prices funky? Here's a contact I've informe,d he'll help, he's an excel guru"  
Bitch, it ain't about data manipulation, it's about base data being faulty as fuck, motherfucker I swear... Sounds like short term gains being the almighty God in this country are to blame everywhere  Nobody seems to think long term.  Every single task is rushed in order to get the product out as fast as possible.  No regard for long term problems at all.  Just make that fast cash up front and then spend twice that amount fixing it in the following months.  Then the final step is management sitting around scratching their heads wondering why they don't have any money.  Which then leads directly back into a rush for another quick gain to compensate.  Such a vicious circle of ignorance. lawyer here, can confirm.

Me: an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure
client: ahhh, we're still crusty about the bill from your last pound of cure. we're gonna handle that ounce of prevention on our end for right now, we'll call you if we need you. If I had a nickel for every time I requested something to be put in writing.  People are stunningly compliant when I tell them I'm on an emergency and that by E-Mailing me their request I'll be able to file it in my to-do list.

...Then months later all I need to do is pull out the original E-Mailed request and say "that's how all y'all wanted it last time." if someone decides to get nasty about it.

EDIT: This is why I wish our workplace had some sort of history-keeping tool, because most people around here just go and overwrite old information, and it's a pain in the ass considering a few of them can't make up their fucking minds and blast through 10+ revisions in a single month.  Apparently the only enterprise-level tool that would suit our purposes would be Sharepoint, and as told by the sysadmin: "You DO NOT WANT to install Sharepoint.  Just trust me on this."  So right now I have to babysit the rules folder by making a daily manual backup of a stack of Excel files so I have something to backtrack to if some douche decides to make a change unannounced only to yell "the values are wrong!!!" a week later. The CYA method is of utmost importance. Exactly why I do it as well. It's amazing anyone does business any other way.  Any organization with half a clue knows that if it's not written, it didn't happen.  

It's not just CYA, it's best practice for process and a memory for the organization, too.

Yet there are still people who refuse to write down requests, and get mad when you insist they have to do that if they want you to do their work.
 I got hired at my current job to fix those hastily written solutions. Our CEO then proceeds to ask me to just get things out ASAP and complains when I don't.

Sorry guy, but I refuse to write code that way. I said that in my job interview, and it is why you hired me. I'm lucky(?) to be the *only* developer working at my company. Whatever I say, my boss agrees with and accepts. I get final say in all our technology decisions, but at the same time, I constantly doubt myself. It's both great and horrible/scary at the same time. Dat job security. Comment nothing in your code for extra insurance. Yeah, but if you're irreplaceable you're unpromotable. I'm pretty sure the *only* programmer can make some hefty demands, they depend on him far more. Promotions? that's for people who care about titles, he can ask for exorbitant raises and see what it gets him. Better yet, comment only in Klingon. That way, you can read your own code, but you'll still have the job security with the added bonus of being extra geeky :-) You don't think other people in IT can understand Klingon? If you wanted a language other geeks wouldn't understand, write everything in sports references Look at the bright side, as the IT Director for your company, you're probably underpaid. As a fellow programmer, I advise you to find a new workplace. There are a lot of awful companies out there who treat their programmers like tools, but there are plenty of others who treat them like gold. 

I didn't truly realize this until I moved to a city where multiple software companies lived. They all battle each other for programming talent and can't afford to treat us like shit because they know the company next door will poach us in a heartbeat.  Just update Adobe Reader. Sounds like my job. I can have easy weeks and then 1 fuckup happens and it's all fucked up for the rest of the month. And it's never my fuckup, but it's always my problem.  [deleted] I just got a job with almost no work, no home office, no supervisor and no idea what my basic responsibilities are. I really wish I had asked this question and will in every interview in the future. 

EDIT: Sorry I can't answer any more of your questions. I was banned from askReddit for posting in this thread Sounds like you've got corporate sponsorship, start a fight club Yeah they pay pretty well too and I mostly just play video games all day. But it doesn't help further my career and since it's so undefined, I have no idea what I would need to do to keep from being fired. So I'm pretty much just cashing the checks while looking for a real job.  Get a real job and don't quit this one, see how long it takes them to fire you, keep cashing checks the entire time. Oh believe me I'm all about the free money. But I know it's not a good long term plan because who knows when it will end.  Get a job where you can work from home. Do that job at your current job, double your income and when it all falls apart take a much needed month long trip to Costa Rica with all the extra cash you have.  Don't run afoul of intellectual property agreements though.  If you're using your workplace's resources to do something while on their clock, it's pretty much theirs. [deleted] I had a job like this for a year. It took awhile to appreciate it and not worry, but once I did I just rode it til the end. I just lived below my means, enjoyed much time with friends and family and   planned for the future. Enjoy this time! May I ask what kind of job you guys are talking about? It's like these fuckers found the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow and won't tell anyone how they did it. How do I get in on this excellent opportunity?!

Please give your response as if this was a pyramid scheme. Yeah, that's one of those positions where I would be wondering if I was supposed to be doing something which someone forgot to tell me. Id be constantly worried that some exec would come in some day and ask me where the customer orders I was supposed to have been processing for the past few months were. Only to find out that they were piling up in someone else's office because someone never told me I was supposed to go get them, and now there are about three dozen cardboard boxes along the wall in that guys office, and thousands of customers clamoring to find out where their products are... Hows that Penske file coming along? And there is no one you can reach out to and get more direction from?  Sounds like a job for a very self-directed person from what you have said. I have a guy who's supposed to be responsible for me who works in Buenos Aires (I live in the US) but after months of trying I can't get any time with him to address my questions. I also understand that I'm one of the hundreds of employees he's supposed to be providing personal guidance for.  Are they, perchance, hiring? This is the most important question here.  Agreed... I'm gonna want an answer as well.  [deleted] [deleted] I cannot stress enough how important it is to take advantage of the opportunity you have right now. You're going to be getting paid to job hunt essentially. Make sure you DO IT. I was recently in a similar spot, took advantage, and now I'm starting at what basically amounts to my dream job on Monday. Just get another job that you can do while you're at your job. Like web design or something free lance Me too!

I pissed about for three months in a part time job I knew nothing about nor did the organisation know what they wanted of me. I got paid 700 a month for drinking coffee in starbucks, til I got bored. How do you get these kinds if jobs??? Just applied for it,  told them what they wanted to hear and I was hired. 

Only, they told me to "make the job yours". I didn't know *how* to because they didn't have any training to provide. So 3 days a week I'd get in the car, drive 30 miles out (expenses were included) and just sit there, drinking and eating and occassionally checking in because of lone worker policy.

 This...sounds like me and my job. Who is my supervisor? Who the hell knows. I have never met anyone who has gone 'I'm your supervisor". Barely anyone has trained me. I work by myself overnight just supervising rehab patients...while they're sleeping and sometimes writing medication reports. That's it. No real home office, just a schedule tacked on the wall in the break room. I'm usually just playing on my 3DS or spending time on my phone. When other techs tell me to do something I have to tell them I have no idea what they're talking about. There's no one to ask for help because I'm the only one in my area overnight. I just collect paychecks in a fog of 'the hell am I doing". 
Apparently my job has a very high turn over rate. I didn't believe them (it pays very well for a part time position) until I caught myself looking for another job. As everyone else said, start looking for a real job. However, if I were you, I would use this time to start really, REALLY considering what it is you want to do for work. You have time now, to hone your skills on someone else's dime. If you wanted to pursue a career in IT, start learning the basics of the job, if you want to code, start coding. If you want to become an engineer, start finding free courses on basic engineering concepts. This is probably the only time someone will actually pay you to learn and further your pursuit of knowledge, take advantage of it. Thats really not how you get into the field of engineering.  Sounds like an episode from Black Books

Just yell a lot and you might get a promotion Instead of this, I usually ask: "If I got the job, what would my first few weeks look like?" It yields similar answers, but is a little less vague and more immediate. I work in software, so there's often a bit of a ramp up period when learning a new project, tools, etc. This shows I'm interested but also opens the door to discuss training, what project(s) I would be put on, whom I would be working with, etc. And despite only saying "first few weeks" it generally goes out further with answers like "Once you got up to speed on X, you would do Y." This is one I used a lot - I like to pair it with a longer-range one too.  So "what would my immediate priorities/challenges be" and "where would you like to see this org/role/relationship going in 5 years?"
 Its a good question, because it makes them think of you in the role. Its basically tricking them into visualizing you doing the job, and also getting them to buy into your success by making them think of how they would onboard you.

A+ question.  This is pretty much the go to question, it shows interest in the company, gives you information and gets a more informal dialogue between you and the interviewer.  It's probably the most common question asked though.   I like to use variations of the same general theme like "what has been your favourite project you've worked on with [company name]" or "can you give examples of recent projects worked on by people in this position?"  The first one is especially good if you can get them to start talking about something they're passionate about.  It makes conversation really flow and they will remember you in a really positive way. Talk to corporate  [deleted] [deleted] A job interview goes both ways. Allways keep that in mind.  
A few relevant questions:  
What options are there for advancement?  
Where do you see the company in 5 years?   
What do you offer in reguards to educating the staff?  
Why is the position open?  
When can i expect to hear from you?  
How is a typical work day?  
Whats the average age and education level of the team ill be working with? (If its full of teens, nope the fuck out, becouse that meens they have a large turnover rate - eg manglement probaly sucks.)  
How do you like to work with company?
 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] "Where do you see yourself in five years?"

"Where do *you* see the *company* in five years?" 

Oh snap. Unless they are just saying things.

I asked my interviewer a similar version of this and he basically said, "well, we'll basically be here forever, I don't see it going anywhere anytime soon," in reference to a manufacturing unit.

Turns out there had been layoffs for the last couple years.  I came into a furlow with half the staff out for a week and the following week the other half.

It worked out for me just fine.  But the answer was that I could do my whole career there and it was very clear very quickly that there was at best 5 years there.  Which is fine, but not exactly a truthful answer. &gt;A job interview goes both ways

I learned this when I began talking with recruiters. They wanted me to land with their clients, but I had a stable job already, so I treated their interviews as if it was me interviewing the employer. I even turned down a couple offers that paid more because I wasn't too hot on how the interview went.

Your most valuable career asset is the ability to say no. &gt; Your most valuable career asset is the ability to say no.

Sounds good. Bit of a bummer then that that ability more or less requries either a filled savings account or having a job already. Finding your first job after college is a lot more troublesome because people have neither at that point. &gt; Finding your first job after college is a lot more troublesome because people have neither at that point.

I think in some regards, the *entry-level professional* job is the one that you suck up, move across the country, and slave away at for 2 years not because you like it or like the area (lets face it, not many 22 year olds want to move to Iowa), but because you need to get past it's hurdle. I packed up and moved and took a job for a bad management team with an atrocious chain of command structure (I reported to 3 people simultaneously and the one who did my performance evaluation I saw the least...). I moved because it was a job I was interested in on paper, but I didn't realize that there is a whole lot more to go with it than just "I'm going to be a programmer on this technology." When a new job opened elsewhere in the organization 9 months later, I jumped on it because I had a better idea of how to gauge fit and culture. Now I'm in a position where I can look at jobs and say no, but that first job out of college, that's not really an option because you need a paycheck, references, and credibility.  

Second, I'm not sure how many college students *really* understand what fit means until they've been in the working world specifically in their field for a while. I knew I wanted to stay in a niche, but I didn't get how the culture and values of an org would make that much difference until about 2 or 3 years in. I thought Dilbert was good until I was in the working world for a few weeks, now I think it's pure gold. You don't really get it till you've seen it, and I think fit is like that. Just because you find a job that sucks doesn't mean you can't keep looking, though. I started doing temp work after college and spent at least six months temping and applying and interviewing like crazy before I landed my current job. I did turn down at least one job offer, and was prepared to turn down others after a ton of red flags in the interviews. 

I know my experience is probably not typical, but I also worked insanely hard to get where I am, and I'm honestly not sure that a lot of my classmates that are still unemployed are doing the same.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I work in IT in the US and in response to those questions you will get:

1 - Bullshit answer. No one is going to say, oh this job is a dead end for sure, you will be stuck there for ever doing the same thing.

2 - Bullshit answer.

3 - Maybe truthful answer, depending on the company. I've worked for companies that are honest about education and more than one that is full of shit. Typically they will ALL say they value and provide education/certifications but when the time comes and you actually want to use it there are funding and timing issues.

4 - Most likely Bullshit. They aren't going to tell you if there were any issues with the previous guy. Or if the position is so draining people dont last a year.

5 - That's a reasonable question likely to get a real answer

6 - That's a reasonable question that might get a real answer, but my bullshit detector would be on high alert.

7 - If I were interviewing someone and they asked that, I would not answer. I don't want to open myself to any question of age discrimination problems

8 - Bullshit answer. I have been in the position of interviewing people at a place I was absolutely miserable and already on the way out. But it's still my job to hire people, so I still need to do that job until I am gone.

edit to add: All of those questions are fine in order to seem inquisitive, but don't put too much stock in the answers you get on most of them. to save people from scrolling up and down...

&gt; What options are there for advancement?

Bullshit answer. No one is going to say, oh this job is a dead end for sure, you will be stuck there for ever doing the same thing.

&gt; Where do you see the company in 5 years?

Bullshit answer. 

&gt; What do you offer in reguards to educating the staff?

Maybe truthful answer, depending on the company. I've worked for companies that are honest about education and more than one that is full of shit. Typically they will ALL say they value and provide education/certifications but when the time comes and you actually want to use it there are funding and timing issues.
 
&gt; Why is the position open?

Most likely Bullshit. They aren't going to tell you if there were any issues with the previous guy. Or if the position is so draining people dont last a year.

&gt; When can i expect to hear from you?

That's a reasonable question likely to get a real answer

&gt; How is a typical work day?

That's a reasonable question that might get a real answer, but my bullshit detector would be on high alert.

&gt; Whats the average age and education level of the team ill be working with? (If its full of teens, nope the fuck out, becouse that meens they have a large turnover rate - eg manglement probaly sucks.)

If I were interviewing someone and they asked that, I would not answer. I don't want to open myself to any question of age discrimination problems

&gt; How do you like to work with company?

Bullshit answer. I have been in the position of interviewing people at a place I was absolutely miserable and already on the way out. But it's still my job to hire people, so I still need to do that job until I am gone.


EDIT: Thanks for the gold!  I can't believe my first gilding and highest rated comment was just a mashup of two other users' comments. If only I kept scrolling down before doing the work myself... You're a saint [deleted] &gt;All of those questions are fine in order to seem inquisitive, but don't put too much stock in the answers you get on most of them.

I think this is really key, though. You're asking these questions to make yourself look good. Something that shows you've done some research on this particular company, not just prepared for interviews with anybody. Like, "I read on your website that _______, which sounds different from what you've been saying. Can you explain more about what that means, and how it affects your companies [employees, customer experience, bottom line, management, whatever]? [deleted] [deleted] I don't believe this.  [At all.](http://i.imgur.com/R8A7A.gif) How will my performance be evaluated?

What is the onboarding process?

What is the average speed to proficiency for this role? [deleted] As an actual hiring executive, most of the high ranking questions smell of 'interwebs research'. I'd think you were asking me a generic question that you didn't actually care about.  "Where do you see the company in 5 years?"  Give me a break...  

Remember, you are an untested, unknown commodity.  Any discussion of your future is insane other than the current role being hired.  "Can this person fill the gap in my org, right now?" is **the only question** running through the interviewer's head.  

Actual questions that show me that you are the right kind of person:

* What's the toughest part of the role I'm applying for?
* What was the team's biggest success in the last year? Mistake?
* From what we've discussed, what would I need to learn to get up to speed on this role?
* Can you give me an example where a current employee exceeded your expectations? I have to partially disagree. Yes, *you* need to know what gap a potential employee can fill *right now*, however *I* need to know if this is a place that I'll want to keep working at once that needs of that gap are filled. It's a two way street. Convince me why I should  want to leave my current job to come fill in your gap. I understand what you are saying.  Yes, there are situations where the applicant is a position of power. Those interviews tend to go differently.

But in most cases, the hiring person has the power and the goal of the interview is to make that person think "I can work with that person and they'll do a good job, I'll let HR know to make an offer."  

Your questions should reflect you are concerned about doing good job.  If you come across as unconcerned about this key factor or seem to assume you'll get the job for sure, in my experience, the interview goes poorly.

I've interviewed plenty of people with the know-how to do a job, but with an attitude that made me file their resume in the trash can. I recently finished a bunch of interviews which lead to some stellar offers, so here's my advice:

- What is the turnover like for this position? (NOTE: this puts the employer on their heels, as it requires them to be honest about why they are hiring for the opening. Great question)

- (For those looking to get a masters degree) Does your company offer any educational assistance programs? Would I be applicable to receive those benefits in this position?

- Why do you enjoy working with this company?

- In your opinion, what differentiates the company from your competitors?

- What are some typical career progression opportunities for people in this role?

- Can you please describe some challenges and/or opportunities that the company must address within the next five years, particularly concerning this role/division?

*edit for typo. Mf'ing typo The only piece of advice I might disagree with has to do with the question about masters programs. If you already know they are amenable to that, ask. But a lot of places that don't offer educational assistance might black ball you because you are a grad school departure risk. Here's a couple I got from a similar Reddit post about interview stuff. After nearly every interview since I started using them, part of the feedback was that I asked really good questions at the end.

"What's the one thing I could achieve in the first six months that would have the most impact?"

"If you could do it all again, would you still work here?"

Both of those got good reactions every time, I'd certainly recommend giving them a try. Is there anything about my application that concerns you? A lot of interviewers have preset questions and this let's them get anything off their chest So your question is "do *you* have any questions?" [deleted] [deleted] It's actually, "How do you think this interview is going?" "was that good for you babe?" This is really a very good question. I ask this when I interview (infrequently) and usually get a ton of good feedback but it also gives me an opportunity to address their concerns. I have only been asked this twice by applicants that I interview and ended up hiring both people. I do a ton of hiring as my organization has grown almost 300% since I started and I don't get this question enough! I completely disagree. By asking this question, you get the interviewer in a negative mindset. They think about why they would not want to hire you and then tell this to you. If this is the last question or only question you ask them, their last thoughts are of why you would struggle in their organization. I guess it depends really. For example, for someone just starting out looking for work, it could be a great question to ask. They would know what areas they would need to work on, and then in a following interview they would have been able to have that covered. I would love if new college hires asked me "Is there anything in my resume or application that I should tell you more about?" It's similar to asking about a concern but stated more positively. In my  experience job seekers sometimes focus too narrowly on "the right answers" and this makes it so I don't learn all of the good things they are capable of...

For example, I've had some young people who had wonderful projects in college, volunteer experiences and other odds and ends that  simply didn't fit my standard interview questions. Sometimes I need to be reminded why you're special enough to interview in person.

When I'm hiring it's not uncommon for me to do 10+ interviews in a day, help me remember you 3 hours later by telling me about your eaglescout project etc. This wording is MUCH better. I do a decent amount of recruiting and interviewing, and I HATE when people ask me what my concerns are about them or their experience. Here's the deal:
1) The question puts your interviewer on the spot
2) If there are concerns about your resume/experience but we decided to interview you anyways, we're going to ask you about them. The point of the interview is to learn more about you--both your skills and weaknesses. In an interview with NASA recently, I asked something in between, which was "is there anything that stuck out on my resume that you'd like to ask about, but haven't?" 

At the time it felt super corny (I ripped it straight from one of those Forbes articles "Ten things your interviewer LOVES to hear") but the interviewer ended up asking why I put my GPA on my resume when it was so terrible. I guess they liked my answer, because I got the job, but I definitely feel like the interviewer likes the question.  What was your GPA? Now I'm curious what you think is terrible, since you work at NASA. I think the risk is worth it considering there is a much greater risk that the interviewer is silently making some assumption about you that hasn't been addressed in their canned list of questions. 

Almost every time *something* gets revealed that can be quickly squashed.  Once the guy said "Well, you seem overqualified and I'm concerned you'll just bail on us in 3 months".  Gave me a chance to pitch why that's a misplaced concern.  Another time the guy said something like "well, I don't think you have enough Linux experience"..  Well fuck the ad said Windows admin so I focused my resume on that and you never asked any damn linux questions.  Gave me a chance to explain that I actually do have a lot of Linux experience and I just didn't realize it was relevant to this position.

In both instances I got hired.  I suspect if I hadn't addressed these unspoken concerns it would have been two more cases of mysteriously getting no callbacks when the interview seemed to go well. This does however give you the opportunity to address these concerns  Exactly this.  The interviewer is thinking those thoughts anyway.  By asking, you can either explain why your perceived shortcomings are not as bad as they seem, or at least have an indication of why the didn't hire you so you know for next time. It depends - for example in flexible jobs like software engineering they want you to know x language and use y tools. If you're missing one of those, even if super critical, a good SE can learn very quickly. By asking this you can demonstrate why those concerns can be allayed. Everyone that I've seen us hire has been lacking something big on paper but has more than made up for it with skill. Oh my God, where do you work? The number of times I've been shot down for not knowing the precise details of a single part of some fucked up tech stack makes me want to tear my hair out. 

&gt; Oh, our shop uses Go Strawberry-Daiquiri for the back end, it's a subset of the Martini libraries that we made here in house 20 minutes ago. You have heard of that before haven't you? Oh, you haven't? That's unfortunate, well we're looking for someone with more *experience*, good meeting you we will contact you in a week. I think it depends on how you feel about your ability to predict/address their concerns. If you know there are some glaring weaknesses that you can't address (Fuck, I don't have a license to practice medicine. . .) then it's a bad question.

If you genuinely can't think of anything that could hold you back, or you know they have something on their mind that you can dismiss, ask it. ("We're concerned about you having to relocate so quickly." "Oh, well I know I'm going to be moving to this area regardless of this position, so I have an apartment scouted and am set whenever an opportunity arises.") Sounds like the worst question to me unless you gave him some serious reasons to doubt you [deleted] Currently doing a lot of interviews since I'm trying to get a job atm, so here's a few multi-purpose:

Could you give an example of a typical working day?
How much training would I receive, and what would it be about?
How many people would I be working with?
What chances are there for progression in the company?

If they already answered all your questions, just reply "Well, you've answered all my questions already, thank you for your time." Always have a question. Doesnt even matter if its about some bullshit i brought up in the "polite chit chat" phase of the interview. Always. Have. A. Fucking. Question. I don't honestly give a damn what the question is, but the fact that you ask one tells me that you care a little bit, and you have the balls to question me. Candidates who don't ask me a question don't get the job - i've never hired the person who said "no" in response. Be sure to consider the flip side of this also, what not to ask. Don't ask questions that should easily be answered on the company website, "what kind of work do you guys do?" "Is this your only office?" 

Make it clear that you have done your research on the company and are truly interested in the position. I like to ask about the interviewer's background, and what working at said company has been like for him/her. However, I have yet to hear back from any of the interviews I've had, so take my word with a grain of salt.  As the person that conducts interviews and the supervisor of the department, I actually like this question.  It gives me a chance to get to the know the prospective employee a bit better as it opens up a discussion.  Good luck with your job search! In my first job interview i was asked if I had any questions. 
I immediately said "when do I start?" 
Hired on the spot. 
Not sure it would work as well with high level jobs.   [deleted] That's a huge gambit to take. I've done that a few times and it's turned out about half the time in my favor. You might come off as cocky or arrogant, or you might come off as somebody who has serious balls and confidence. Best advice I can give is that if you want to use this question, think back to how the interview went as a whole and the general tone of the interview before you use it. If it's a nice joking, easy tone for the majority of the interview and it went very well, then jokingly use this question and it can work out in your favor. However, if you haven't gotten to the point where you are able to make small jokes and it's nice and relaxed as an atmosphere inside of the interview, then don't use this question because you will rub them the wrong way and screw yourself over. My upvote isn't enough to emphasize to people how correct this is.  There are definitely times for jokes and times to be serious during an interview.  If you can control the interview by throwing in a couple of jokes during the beginning and see if the interviewer smiles and starts joking back, you're golden for stuff like this.  Knowing how to read the interviewer is pretty key.

With that said, I have said cocky/confident comments jokingly with tremendous success.  I interviewed for an engineering position and the interviewer asked "So what are you doing after all of this, what's your grand scheme" and I mentioned I wanted to get into management to which his reply was "Oh so you want my job."  I replied, in a super light-hearted and joking tone, with "Oh absolutely, that's why I'm here, I wanted to see the view from your office."  We both laughed for a bit after that and I got a job offer two weeks later.  But seriously don't do this if the guy is a dick. I was working at a huge corporate place doing web Dev work. I was the most talented employee which pissed me off because I took the job to learn not teach everyone. One day my boss jokingly said, "you'd better watch out. I'm going to hire people who are smarter and better than you."

I said, "please do. I didn't take this job to be a teacher."

Edit: A few things to point out. I was in a JR position at the time. It's expected that JR roles will receive some mentoring along the way. I was hoping to have creative people wanting to push boundaries and create excellent customer experiences. What I walked into was a small team of people more interested in punching the clock and waiting for lunch. Corporate development is 90% sifting through red tape and 2% being creating. The rest is meetings and lunch.  They are so lucky they hired you. How did he take it? It was a she. She loved it but she was soon fired.  What kind of career track could someone in this position expect? I'd be more specific: 

What have OTHER employees in this position gone on to do after a few years? What I've done in the past is spend an hour or two the night before researching the company and making a note of questions I can't find the answer to online. For example, "Where do you see X part of the company headed?" or "What is a typical day like?" or "What do you honestly like or dislike about working here?". I wouldn't phrase that last question like that. It implies familiarity with the interviewer while putting them on the spot (why would they tell you what they personally don't like about working there?), also the word "honestly" could imply that you feel the need to specifically ask them to be honest, rather than expecting it. It's not a bad area but it could easily be taken the wrong way I usually do my homework and research the employer before I go to the interview.  Then I use that to answer this question.  Something like: "How did that recent merger with company X affect your operations?"  It proves that you did your homework and made an effort to learn about them, before you even got hired.  It shows initiative.

And as a side note, always have a question prepped.  Almost every interviewer asks it.  And I've been on the other side; it really sets candidates apart when they've done their homework, or at least ask something about us.  If you just say "Uh, no..." then you come off as disinterested. Where do you see this company being in 5 years? What are the company's weaknesses? [deleted] [deleted] I really want to go to a shit interview and ask this question just to see the face of my interviewer. Why do you want me to work here? [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Why didn't your company go to college? What is this 2 year gap in the company's employment history? Was there ever a time in your company's existence where you had issues working alongside another company? How did your company respond to this? How can I compete with your company? The company is a perfectionist, haha [deleted] Its all such a circlejerk because of course no one is going to say " out of business and bankrupt"  [deleted] I recommend writing down your questions and bringing them with you. I did this to my job interview on Tuesday and it impressed them, they made remarks about how organised I was. I got the job a couple hours later! These are the questions I asked:

What kind of training do you provide for this role?

How many people work here/in this department? What are they like? What are their roles?

How might I prepare myself for this role?

And finally, ask if they have any concerns with your application. They might really like you but be worrying about how far away you live, or gaps in your CV. Prompt them!  What are some of the qualities of someone who is successful in this job Just landed an awesome job yesterday, called me back 30 minutes after the interview, the 2 I asked were; 

what areas have people had trouble with in this role in the past?

what traits have made someone excel in this role? I've asked something like, "I'm excited about the prospect of working here and I think this is a great company but what do you guys think sets you apart from other companies in this field?" What do *you* enjoy about working for (insert company name here)? I asked this question of a career counsellor when I was on the job hunt a couple of years ago and they suggested a couple, but the only one I've ever felt comfortable asking in an interview that didn't sound super awkward/contrived was:

When do you anticipate making a decision about this position?

You know when to expect to hear from them &amp; it gives you some extra insight into their hiring process as well.

I've also asked for clarification about something they mentioned to me in the interview like "you mentioned that responsibility X will be a new aspect of this position, could you tell me more about that please?" In the few job interviews I had, I always asked how my interviewer ended up working for the company and/or what his main tasks were. Each time they went on a &gt;5-minute monologue. "What's the average tenure of an employee in this position?"

"Where do employees typically go from this position? Ex: Promotion, lateral move, or leave?"

"If you ask someone in this position what they would change about it, what would they say?"

"What is the turnover percentage in this position?"

"What is the most sought after position above this, and what credentials are required for it?"

"What major changes are in store for this position, and what has changed recently?"

"If you ask someone in this position what their favorite thing about it is, what would they say?"

"Can you walk me briefly through a work day of someone in this position?"

 Ask the recruiter/hiring manager how well they like their job. Follow that with also asking an interesting question about the company as well. I do interviews at my job fairly often and an applicant recently asked a similar question -"why do you like working for x company?"   Also, "what makes x company different from other local companies that do similar work?" Both were good questions, gave me an opportunity to sell the company to them. Almost reverse psychology, makes the candidate seem like they are picking the job, not the job picking the candidate. 
Any questions about pay, hours/schedule (especially wanting to change the schedule right off the bat) are disappointing to me as an interviewer. You could get the schedule and rate of pay from the job posting, so asking that shows you put little effort into this position.  A lot of jobs don't post the hours and rate in their ads. I am currently job hunting and this drives me bonkers.  [deleted] How do you feel if someone asks you how close their new position will be to the nearest coffee maker? I'm a barista, this would either be the perfect banter for breaking the ice or get you kicked out with a sexual harassment charge depending on how exactly this is phrased. What would be your 30-60-90 day expectations of someone stepping into this role?

What is the most difficult part of the position?

What is your favorite part of working for company x?

Is there a particular project you have involved in that really makes you proud?

I am a hiring manager and tbh you can be the best candidate I've ever seen, but if you never ask a question at the end of the interview, I will never hire you! &gt; I am a hiring manager and tbh you can be the best candidate I've ever seen, but if you never ask a question at the end of the interview, I will never hire you!

Why? There's some good answers here, but I'll add my two cents anyway. 

One thing to remember is that companies, generally speaking,  want to hire people that are interested in the company and not just interested in having a job. So, ask some questions that show an interest, ask questions the show you are already envisioning yourself in the job.

* Where do the employees normally have lunch around here? 

It's a simple question, but it shows that you are already thinking about yourself in the job. 

* Will I be working on a team?

And if the answer is yes, then possibly:

* Can a meet a few of the team members?

* Can you show me around the facilities/office? 

* How long to people normally work here? 

Is this a 'stepping stone' job? If there's high turnover, does that mean the management sucks? 

* Do you promote from within? or externally?  I always ask about the interviewers personal experience with the company, how long have they worked there, do they like it? Did they advance though the company?

Also worth asking about their staff turnover, if you're applying for low-paying job that has a high turnover it's a indicator you might be treated like shit. This guy made a list that I think is perfect
http://www.reddit.com/r/jobs/comments/335x46/interview_questions_every_candidate_should_ask/ Why did this position open up?... if he wasnt fired makes you wonder why he quite or she. While that might be good information for YOU to have, I don't see it improving your standing with the interviewer. Kind of makes you look like a twat.  I'll disagree. I hire a lot of people, it shows savvy about the job market and your own value as a future employee to know why the position is needed. It can help you negotiate salary, if you know why I need to fill the position. Also the majority of open positions are happy/positive stories and they are things I'm eager to share if you ask me.

The question really asks "Is this a vibrant/growing company or is this a difficult position?"  A lot of times a position is open simply because an organization is growing and changing. Other times positions open up because someone was promoted or moved laterally. And then there are times when a position opens because of retirement. (Coming from an IT mindset) It could also ask "am I being brought in to clean up a mess the previous guy left or is this a graceful transition?" It doesn't always have to be a negative circumstance that led to it though, if the position is available because the company is expanding or something contributed to the creation of a new position it shows an interest in the company by asking about the circumstances surrounding the job. The moment you're not desperate for "a job" and you're looking for "the next job" in your career, you'll know all the questions you want to ask. Most of redditors are college students, so first job applications are the most important.  If your desperate for 'a job' then you're only asking the extra questions as a strategy for getting hired. You want to be in a position where you're choosing your employer more than they're choosing you, so approaching even your first job with that mindset is beneficial, and once you thinking about the kind of place you'd like to work, the questions will come easier.

(Checking my privilege obviously, sometimes 'a job' is more important than 'the job') In that case work anywhere that will hire you. 

This is when you learn what the actual working environments look like. 

Try to stay in a job ~3 years. You will be sure to have learned everything you need to know about that employer and should have mastered your own role within it.  You will be able to confidently search for what you need in a work environment. 

Also watch where the senior employees go when they quit. Talk to them to learn why they're thinking of moving on.  &gt; Try to stay in a job ~3 years.

If you landed a good job in your field, maybe. Otherwise don't stay at anything for over a year so you don't waste time. It does not take 3 years to learn everything about your job and in most cases you will isolate yourself into your position rather than expanding it. 

Unfortunately, most managers are idiots and just want to see experience. Need experience to get a job, need a job to get experience.  This is terrible advice. Work anywhere that will hire you? Ok, let me hate my life for the next 3 years where if I would've paid a little more attention and been a little more patient everything would've been fine. 

Source: I worked the first place that hired me. It was stupid. Would not recommend, ever. Take time and learn how to get hired at someplace awesome. It's better that way, I promise. I very much agree. I was internship hunting recently and didn't really know how to go about this question until I got my first really good offer. After that any company I interviewed with I had questions ready to go to basically gauge if they had more to offer. The biggest thing that changed the way my interviews worked, and helped me come up with good questions, is when I approached the interview as if I were interviewing them to decide if I want to work there. What do you want to know about the company that will help you make that decision?

All of the questions here are great. Think about the interview differently to come up with more. Is only half your audition for the company. The other half is then auditioning for you. One thing a LOT of people forget is to close the damn deal. You do this by making it clear that you are want the position (assuming that you actually do, of course). I close by asking the following questions:


- "I am enthusiastic about moving forward. What is the next step?"
- "Is there anything further that I can provide for you as you make your decision?"

These two questions indicate that you do want the job (surprisingly, this is not necessarily a given) and that you are proactive. This also forces the interviewer to engage with you and you will get a sense of how you did without sounding insecure or arrogant. 

Be careful about venturing into "interviewing the interviewer" territory. Demonstrate your interest and expertise without putting them on the defensive. There are a lot of good, thought-provoking questions in this thread but use caution and remember that YOU are the interviewee, not the other way around.

Pro tips: 

1. Bring 2 printed copies of your resume with you and have it at the ready. I was interviewed yesterday and the employer didn't have access to his email so he couldn't consult the copy of my resume sent to him by his admin. Boom, nomoredolls was ready with an extra copy.
2. Send that thank you note, even if it's just an email. It's not outdated and shows appropriate follow up skills.


Good luck! Speaking as someone who interviews and hires people relatively often, I would advise against some of the advice in this thread. There is nothing more annoying to me than someone asking me a canned question. Where do you see this company in 5 years is something you read somewhere. It's not a real question you came up with, and it's not usually pertinent to the actual conversation. Ask me something I haven't already told you. Ask about how the company works, ask what the culture is like, ask me to elaborate on something we talked about during the interview. Do NOT ask me something from a list of questions. Ask me something you care about. Make me remember you by your question. With that said, if you can't think of *anything,* asking a canned question is still better than asking nothing. Had that happen this week and after a few "uh" and "ums" he said no. He lost the job right there.  http://www.kcna.co.jp/index-e.htm - North Korean official news feed.  It's just amazing.  
  
Also, www.ipl.org - huge list of newspapers from all states and around the world.  Any time there is a big news story happening in a small town, the local papers and comments are always the most interesting.  I'm also addicted to small town letters to the editor. Did we just crash north korea? More likely we got a North Korean IT guy executed. whoopsie You know the really sad part about that?   
  
It's probably true. Let's check the site again tomorrow to be sure Let's *all* check the site again tomorrow to be sure... Oops! Killed another IT guy... As reddit sllowly removes North Korea's IT labor force.

...This is how we win. :( We accidentally DDoSed it We are all going to pay now...... Could you actually imagine if this was taken as a threat?  World War 3 starts because of a hug of death. Well done reddit
 We did it, reddit! Grandpa, tell me that story again how OP started WW3 We would each get a video of Kim Jong Un ranting
about how he was going to kill us, and then... nothing happens. *Plops missile into ocean.
 Photoshops missile into ocean. . Mspaints missile into blue fill. I imagine the people dealing with this event sound like U.S.media discussing 4chan..."who is reddit?" the hacker? Our Great Leader will stop any attack. He is greatest hacker entire world has ever seen. He controls supercomputer with brain. He kill you like fly Kim Jong Un is the hacker known as 4chan.  DDOS-ing North Korean websites should be a sport. We would run out of websites in ten minutes.  I think we already did. We did it, reddit! This just in: Hacker website "Reddit" launches cyber attack against the North Korean government, retaliation against the US expected. The US government will now directly control what websites you can access. Thank you, and have a good day.  What? Who is this "reddit" guy you are talking about? he is a cousin of the [4CHAN](http://giphy.com/gifs/8ENbhs81En5Kw) guy. BREAKING NEWS! [Footage caught of the legendary hackers, Reddit and 4chan!](http://diabetesinsight.ie/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/Hackers.jpg) Is that Gabe Newell on the left? The left? 

I think that ones Reddit, but I'm not to sure. So Reddit = Peter Griffin? Obviously fake. Not enough fedoras. Well, about half the links I clicked on were down 

So. Yes.  Their party newspaper has a slightly fancier website, even hosted in North Korea, at least the last time I checked:

http://www.rodong.rep.kp/en/

There are also tons of photos. As per usual with this regime, there are no articles that are more than a few months old (newer articles and slideshows are also frequently removed). Access to old newspapers and magazines is restricted and this Orwellian policy extends to their websites. The reason for this is obvious: A citizen has no way to just go to a library and check if the lofty promises made a year or two ago were ever fulfilled. Altering history is also much easier this way. &gt;Access to old newspapers and magazines is restricted and this Orwellian policy extends to their websites. The reason for this is obvious: A citizen has no way to just go to a library and check if the lofty promises made a year or two ago were ever fulfilled.  

A citizen has no way of knowing what's posted on those websites, what with not having internet access and all. It's probably to free-up whatever meagre server space they have. Well, a few North Koreans in universities, important (arms, import/export) companies and among the inner circle do have Internet access, however, it is usually extremely limited. From what I've heard, people use a search engine like Google and then have to individually ask a party official to provide access to the pages they found this way. The whole process is noted down (user, time, etc.) and of course each machine and connection is heavily monitored. By default, almost every foreign site is blocked.

There also is a North Korean intranet, originally very similar to the French Minitel or German BTX system, but now more comparable to e. g. a company's intranet in size and tech. We know very little about it.

I'm assuming that sites like the party newspaper are among the few websites that do not require prior authorization. Just because a publication can also be read by foreigners, this does not mean that it's exempt from the usual kinds of restrictions and censorship. I'm aware of the North Korean intranet and I have no doubt that top party cadres have full access to the internet. I'm not so sure about students - I saw a documentary about university students in NK and they were "surfing" with what appeared to be "google.jpg" rather than google.kr or google.com.   

The KCNA and rongdong websites are probably meant for exclusive foreign consumption. Besides, the only "promises" ever being made on those websites is to one day smite the US and Japanese imperialist aggressors and their South Korean prostitute lapdogs. Rodong Sinmun's article "S. Korean Puppet Regime's Sycophancy towards Outside Forces Brings Only Shame" was quite entertaining. Quality journalism.  My all time favorite article was a two paragraph piece about a basket weaving festival that ended with "...while the American pig-dogs drown in the blood of their slaves." "The U.S. has already been disqualified to talk about dialogue and the nuclear issue due to the anachronistic moves to stifle the DPRK."

Gold! You missed the gem at the very end of the article. 

&gt; The U.S. would be well advised not to forget that its acts of getting on the nerves of the DPRK would only add to its pain.  For something more lighthearted there's always these gems from the archives  
 
*  "Kim Jong Un Gives Field Guidance to Pyongyang Hosiery Factory"  

* "Feats Made by Great Persons to Turn DPRK into Thick Woodland"  

*  "Exploits of Peerlessly Great Persons Highly Praised"  

*  "Korean in U.S. Admires Reality of DPRK"  

* "Congratulatory Group of Koreans in Japan Visits Various Places"  

*  "Dancing Parties of Youth and Students Held"  

* "Kim Il Sung, Great Man Always Living in Hearts of World Progressives"  

Pulitzer-worthy stuff
 It's down. Reddit has officially taken down the official news feed of an entire country. This is so going on my resume. I might have something you would possibly enjoy given your love of small town letters to the editor... In the far eastern part of the commonwealth lies a tiny town called Whitesburg. Whitesburg's newspaper is known as the Mountain Eagle. This paper features a section they call "Speak Your Piece." Anyone can write anonymous letters to the paper about any subject and have a chance to get them published... They range from local politics, to marital problems, to the just plain strange. Its almost like an in print version of Topix. It constantly blows my mind to see what some people say there. The good news is that they still run this section in every paper they publish. The even better news is that there is a large archive of previously printed papers and you can find the speak your piece section from there here: http://www.themountaineagle.com/common/archive.html

Here's just a little teaser into the more bizarre things that are posted in speak your piece (I don't think reddit will like this though): "This is the old cat killer. I wish you people would quit setting your cats out below my house. Its getting to where it is bothering me to kill them. Ill have to kill five of them this week. I do have a conscience, you know. If you dont stop setting them out, what am I supposed to do? If you think I am going to feed them all, you are crazy. Have a big old meow day." 

This "cat killer" is a frequent submitter to speak your piece. There has even been an alleged second cat killer that was appointed to continue the original cat killer's work. I seriously couldn't make this stuff up if I tried. One of the best field trips I went on in high school was to Whitesburg. Our band teacher was from there and wanted us to play in his old school. So we went. It was a neat town. In the hills, like waaayyy in the hills. One of the nights we were there everyone was playing board games at the teachers parents house. It was super boring. So a friend and I said we were going to go do something outside. Oddly enough no one really question us as we just got up and left. So we just start walking around the town. We come to an overpass that went over a small creek or whatever. On the wall of it was a giant year page blown up and pasted to the wall. And on the other side some really weird poems (none of which I can remember) wrote on the walls. So after we looked at that for a while we continued walking. We came upon like, a community arts center or something like it. Went inside and they had art from local people. Some of it pretty cool. Then we saw they had a radio station. With a note saying you could visit between such and such hours. We were there during those hours so we walked in. There was a very confused guy doing a radio show. But he was super nice. He was playing like 80's and 90's punk and alternative stuff. He let us pick out some songs to be played and did a short "interview". Then we walked to this little diner or something and had dinner. Almost done with our meal my friend and I had come to the realization that we didn't have any money on us. So as we sit here and try to figure out how we are going to pay our waitress comes and tells us our meal has been paid for and tells us it was the older gentleman at that table (points to a table full of people). So we walk over to thank him and he asks us where we are from and what brought us down. He tell us he is the mayor and they are having a city council meeting or something like that. So that is my story about Whitesburg. It was an odd little town. I could totally picture a Nightvale type situation there. But nice people. 


Edit: fixed some words
 Wow. Are you sure the Onion isn't behind this site?
"The U.S. would be well advised not to forget that its acts of getting on the nerves of the DPRK would only add to its pain. " If you follow the commentary of serious analysts, you'll see North Korea knows what it's doing. They're not trying to make you agree with them; they are trying to play up the kitsch. It's a way to make money and distract people from the tangible horrors of what's going on in their country. It frustrates NGOs like LINK and prevent them  from getting widespread support. How enthusiastic would you be to donate money to undermine a "joke" regime?

Countries like Cuba write their articles in perfect English without stupid metaphors littered everywhere. Spanish insults towards the USA would sound stupid if translated as directly as KCNA translates their Korean content ("imperialist Yankee cretins").

EDIT: I'm *not* saying that the KCNA is trying to be flippant or that the news they present is not an accurate representation of the regime's views; this is just my opinion on some of NK's goals regarding propaganda for foreigners. They have a choice about how they can translate and express their opinions. Do you seriously think that they are 100% oblivious to how silly words like "pig-dog" sounds in English?

There is also a lot of scholarship and reporting on how NK uses its reputation for kitsch to make money. Making stupid looking stamps, selling worthless trinkets, Stalinist restaurants in SE Asia, etc. It's hard to imagine that they aren't translating in a purposeful manner...

Also, their propaganda didn't always sound so stupid. Look at this pamphlet from 1969: http://www.imjinscout.com/NK_PSYOPS.html

Compare it with typical KCNA articles like this: http://www.rodong.rep.kp/en/index.php?strPageID=SF01_02_01&amp;newsID=2015-04-27-0003&amp;chAction=T Which North Korea scholars/analysts have expressed this view? The level/intensity/direction of DPRK media seems to be taken pretty seriously by most (Cha, Lankov, Cumings), if not the specific details of KCNA/Rodong articles.

It's also worth noting that a lot of the content on KCNA and almost all of the content on Rodong is direct translations of articles published in Korean on physical newspapers distributed within the DPRK. The same applies to the videos on  's youtube channel. Those stories are broadcast across the DPRK for all to see. I don't see how one can make the claim that "They're not trying to make you agree with them; they are trying to play up the kitsch" when the content you're seeing is almost entirely for domestic consumption. The TV shows, radio programs and newspapers within the DPRK all have the same seemingly absurd language in them. 

EDIT 1:

&gt; I'm not saying that the KCNA is trying to be flippant or that the news they present is not an accurate representation of the regime's views; this is just my opinion on some of NK's goals regarding propaganda for foreigners. They have a choice about how they can translate and express their opinions. Do you seriously think that they are 100% oblivious to how silly words like "pig-dog" sounds in English?

Look at this quote from a 2014 article;

&gt;8       9        24         1          21          .

All of their Korean language articles are filled with the same sorts of absurd insults and threats. There's constant reference to crushing the enemy, long swords of the KPA artillery slashing the hearts of the enemies, imperialism, cowardice, war crimes, etc.  is basically "General Son of a Bitch" or something even worse (since  is a lot more serious than "son of a bitch" in Korean). It's not anything of a stretch to imagine "pig-dog" coming out of that. I'd say the Korean language insults are even worse than the seemingly childish translations they go with in their final translations.


&gt; There is also a lot of scholarship and reporting on how NK uses its reputation for kitsch to make money. Making stupid looking stamps, selling worthless trinkets, Stalinist restaurants in SE Asia, etc. It's hard to imagine that they aren't translating in a purposeful manner.

You keep referring to "serious analysts" and "a lot of scholarship and reporting" when that is utter and complete bullshit. No one has ever suggested that DPRK branded merchandise is a substantial source of income for the regime. As with the translations of actual DPRK media, you're taking what looks to you to be stupid - "stupid looking stamps" - and just assuming that this somehow means the DPRK is "trolling for dollars". Those absurd "stalinist restaurants in SE Asia" are a prestige position for the girls that work there. Families dream of getting their daughters into those jobs, bribery is rampant to secure those jobs and ideological purity is essential. I don't know what "worthless trinkets" you're referring to, but those Kim Jong-Il and Kim Il-Sung pins are serious business in North Korea. 

&gt;Also, their propaganda didn't always sound so stupid. Look at this pamphlet from 1969: http://www.imjinscout.com/NK_PSYOPS.html

&gt;Compare it with typical KCNA articles like this: http://www.rodong.rep.kp/en/index.php?strPageID=SF01_02_01&amp;newsID=2015-04-27-0003&amp;chAction=T

Exhibit (A) is what it looks like when the DPRK is trying to convince a foreign enemy to defect to their side, exhibit (B) is what a direct translation of a piece of North Korean media looks like. That is the difference between the two. It's true that earlier copies of the Rodong (during Kim Il-Sung's time) are toned down compared to those after his death, but that's because KIS wasn't as focused on building a cult of personality. DPRK media during KJI and thereafter is filled with all of the insane bullshit you see now.

You are completely and utterly full of shit but you prefaced your idiotic, uninformed opinion with "serious analysts" and "a lot of scholarship and reporting" to give it some air of authority. Now you're back-pedaling about what you really meant as you're realizing that, yes, all this crazy shit is exactly what North Korean people read about, listen to on the radio and see on television.  Did we hug of death the site for NK? http://miniwars.co.uk/

A wonderful site for miniature war gamers with built in blogging and player finder database.  Now if they could just get enough users it would be a magical place. is it just 40k &amp; wormahordes though? They have a growing list of all kinds of games, currently I'm trying to convince the admin to add Vor the Maelstrom to the list. I hate the reddit hug of death :( Everyone else stop clicking so that I can! http://sirenvoices.blogspot.co.uk/

One of the most wonderful blogs ever to be written.

It's simple stories (carefully anonymised) from an ambulance medic in the UK. Fascinating and sad and beautiful.

It finished the other week, I've been reading it for years and I'm totally devastated. 9 years and a thousand posts. Good on him.  http://www.saltybet.com/ 
Constantly streams computer controlled MUGEN fights between random characters from practically anything. You can sign up to get fake money to bet on the fights too. Also the music is amazing. 
 ON THE ROAD TO VIRIDIAN CITYYYYYY

Edit: Always/sometimes/never bet on DBZ "I'm on the way I'm on the road I'm on the road"     ....  Sadly I owned the album that song is from and listened to it religiously as an 11 year old. "2 B A Master"  I believe it was called. Bunch of original, officially licensed Pokemon pop songs but not found in any other show/movie to my knowledge. Besides the final track, being the pokerap. 

A strange thing indeed.  I'm 20 and I've been listening to that album all month. My favorite is "double trouble". James has an amazing whinney. I just watched Hatsune Miku fight a dinosaur monster to the tune of Ievan Polka. This site is awesome.

Miku lost, though, which is bullshit Salty Bet will fuck with you. Some of the world's greatest fictional powerhouse characters will be taken down by an MS Paint Anime Girl. Sometimes those powerhouse characters are just jokes. Always bet on waifu unless everyone is saying "fake waifu"  or some shit. But even then it's a crap shoot  Oh wow, it's been a while since I've seen MUGEN ever mentioned. Makes me want to go play it again. Light Yagami was the most broken character I ever played. Every attack button, he just "wrote" in his Deathnote and the enemy character would straight up die. www.whatshouldireadnext.com

Quick and simple way to get reading recommendations based on your previous reads.  www.doesthedogdie.com

Makes movie watching with the wife less emotionally risky. "A pet is injured or appears dead but ultimately lives."

This HAS to be because of Kung Pow Chosen one!! I'm coming! Chosen One!! I'm coming! Chosen one!! I was thinking Anchorman Homeward Bound Benji. DOG!  "It's going to be OK, boy!" *death rasp* "NO IT'S NOT!" And then he killed the dog... Remembering lines from Kung Pow makes me laugh harder than actually watching the movie... I chuckled very hard at this Will smith movie. Never again Will Smith Movie 2 was pretty good though. I didn't care for jaden smith movie, though.  I said this last time.

The page for Old Yeller should just say "Seriously?" in really big letters. Ditto for Where the Red Fern Grows. I searched for John Wick. I don't know what I expected.  www.bash.org! I always pull it up in a car ride or something. It was popular before, but it's kind of dead now. Still, it's always fun reading quotes from IRC     &lt;BigBurk&gt; God i really cant stand windows me
    &lt;Felacio&gt; heh i know. i moved to win2k
    * Felacio sucks huge cock
    &lt;Felacio&gt; errr ME, not /me
^^^[Source](http://www.bash.org/?163301)

Fucking 10/10 Hit random

&lt;cndz&gt; what would jesus do   
&lt;Josh&gt; probably get crucified and die

I think i'll check this one out. I put on my robe and wizard hat. HAHAHA DISREGARD THAT, I SUCK COCKS Every 6 months I'll run through the top 200.  Its always comedy gold. I go back there on a regular basis and hit the Random &gt; 0 button (all quotes with votes above 0...most negatively voted quotes are just racist humor and shit) and remember fondly the days of yore, when the internet was this weird thing that a small but steadily growing group attached itself to. It's like, ever since MySpace, everything's become social media and viral this and hashtag that. I like pretending Linux jokes are still a thing.

oh god this is what being old is like 10 years ago I saw this one:

&lt;Sonium&gt; someone speak python here?

&lt;lucky&gt; HHHHHSSSSSHSSS

&lt;lucky&gt; SSSSS

&lt;Sonium&gt; the programming language



Whenever anyone mentions python now all I can think is hssss hsssss Not sure if this thread is legit or a really well-thoughout DDOS http://youarelistening.to/

its a combination of a calm soundcloud playlist and police/emergency radio streams. its surprisingly relaxing. [NationStates](http://www.nationstates.net/)

"NationStates is a nation simulation game. Create a nation according to your political ideals and care for its people. Or deliberately oppress them. It's up to you." By the time I was done with that site all of my citizens were required by law to be nude, incest was legal, and cars were all replaced by bicycles.

I wasn't big on the social aspect of the game though http://spaceweather.com  
For general info and for satellite tracking!  www.scp-wiki.net

SCP Foundation "I'll just read this one. Oh it references another one, I guess I will read that one too so I get the full picture. Oh, cool, a transcript from one of the experiments. Oh, another referenced SCP, better read that one too to be safe..." Sigh... I'll get the amnesiacs As a record collector this is my home away from home:

www.discogs.com
 Love this site! First discovered it when I was trying to find the value of all the records I inherited from my father. However, instead of becoming a source of income from selling the records, it had the exact opposite effect. I kept all those records, and now I spend far too much money on the marketplace. It awoke some deep obsession for vinyl I didn't even know was there. I love Discogs! It's great for rare records and CD's www.pixlr.com
It's a great alternative to photoshop that's free. It obviously doesn't have as many features but gets the job done for the types of editing I do.

www.geoguessr.com
One of my favorite games. If I'm not on reddit in my free-time, I'm probably playing this. Geoguessr's all good until they put you in the desert. I recently got into an in browser game called [Town of Salem](http://blankmediagames.com) that's really fun and frustrating. 

Edit: my ToS username is oheyson /r/townofsalem!

For those curious this game is basically like the card game mafia, but with more roles and an added sense of mysteriousness.

EDIT: PrfctChaos corrected me. It's now /r/TownOfSalemGame Thisiscolossal.com posts of random fine art and street art from all over. Really well curated. I check a few other sites like this but this is my favorite one. I see a lot of reposts on reddit from this site.  [Link for the lazy](http://www.thisiscolossal.com) A lot of these are from r/internetisbeautiful

* [NebulaGear.com](http://nebulagear.com/collections/all) - Shirts with space designs on them. Really cool concept.

* [Clickhole](http://www.clickhole.com) - The Onion's parody of BuzzFeed-esque clickbait sites

* [SmuggestMugs](http://www.smuggestmugs.com) - For mug lovers only, the smuggest of mugs. I have the Is It Tea mug.

* [Forgotify](http://www.Forgotify.com) - Shows you music tracks that have never been played on Spotify. 4 million of them.

* [Cluffle](http://www.cluffle.com) - Wanna browse reddit at work? Make it look like Google.

I'll add more later. *Clicks on cluffle*

"This website has been blocked"

Weak

 Ditto.  But here I am browsing the actual, honest-to-goodness Reddit at work.  None of this is adding up at all... someone in IT is a redditor Your company might be buying rules from a 3rd party but have decided to unblock reddit themselves. Y'all unlocked your [Clickhole MegaClicker badge](http://imgur.com/tZ9NZiV)? Clickhole seems like something you'd find on the GTAV fake internet. http://www.clickhole.com/clickventure/get-whole-online-experience-trying-our-internet-si-2151#1, OCRemix.org

An enormous library of fan made remixes of the soundtracks of videogames.   New submissions regularly appear and keep the listening fresh.  I swear when I was younger that half of my iPod's songs came from this site. I very often check hyperbole and a half for updates, the girl that ran it had severe depression and I've always been terrified that she might commit suicide, the time between posts or signs of life are huge but every time she appears I'm filled with happiness because I know she's still fighting and also her webcomic is amazing [Bill Gates](http://www.gatesnotes.com/About-Bill-Gates/Summer-Books-2015) just recommended her awesome book as his Summer reading list.  
It is genuinely funny and it tackles a lot of her issues with depression. For real. Her post Depression Part Two gets so many things about depression right that other people get wrong. How you don't really feel sad, you just feel apathetic and empty and how social interactions become artificial and a chore. How all of the advice from everyone is completely useless. And how when you're suicidal, you don't necessarily want to do anything violent, you just want to not exist. If what you describe is depression then I might need help lol

Edit: thanks for the advice everyone, I'll look into it There are many types of depression but I was never wanting to sit in a ball and cry.  I always said "I don't want to hurt myself, but if a meteor fell out of the sky and killed me I wouldn't be that mad about it." I assumed that wasn't depression because I assumed depression was all about just hating yourself, not about feeling numb and empty inside.

Read these.  They changed my life and actually convinced me that I need to seek help for my depression that I didn't really know I had.

http://hyperboleandahalf.blogspot.com/2011/10/adventures-in-depression.html
http://hyperboleandahalf.blogspot.com/2013/05/depression-part-two.html Seek it. To reduce it to an dichotomy, either:

A) You don't need help and are comfortably informed as much. You take solace in the knowledge that things aren't so bad and build from there, isolating the little hurdles to truly sparkle coat your life.

OR

B) You **do** need help, and it's there waiting for you. Trained professionals offer help, guidance, therapy and or treatment and you are ushered into a way of life and thinking you never though possible just prior to reading this comment.

As a depression *survivor*, I can honestly say realising one needs help is probably the hardest bit, the second hardest is asking for it. It's all good news after that (sorta). [deleted] You say it yourself, you don't let them all see the whole you. The you that wants to disappear.

Some people won't understand, because they'll only know the happy you and probably don't want to let go of it, that is to be expected. But plenty others will understand, the majority.

In life, you ALWAYS need to consider yourself, whilst you are still of mind and body to do so. Can't be confident and happy if you're not in one piece, and no one can quite see the cracks as well as the person who lives them!

Seek help from a professional - you can speak to your doctor or see a different one where available if you'd like to keep the matter as separated as possible from everything else in your life. Involve as many or as few people as you choose, when you choose. It's your health, it's your call, it's your business.

But one of the stupid, bastard, critically unfair things about depression is that it isn't black or white. It's one hell of a shade of numbing grey where you can still be happy at times, or seem it, but still be falling apart.

Seek help.

If nothing else, because I don't want you to disappear. IMO, her book describes depression and anxiety perfectly and I'm so glad she was able to come out of her depression in one piece. 

She also explains the concept of "the corn kernel" or my interpretation, the "cat on a leash principle". When my SO was in a serious fit of depression, she and I were walking around and saw a really pissed off cat being walked on a leash. In that instant, something just broke in her brain and she laughed for a solid 5 minutes. Ever since then, whenever one of us is depressed, the other looks for something that will force a "does not compute" moment.

Read the book, it will make you happy.   &gt; a really pissed off cat being walked on a leash

Something like [this?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SSKatciX3hA) Yes but on the sidewalk in Copley Square in Boston. When it's not cats on leashes it's homeless people fighting with walkers.  Oh man, the first couple times I read some of her posts about her dogs they had me crying I was laughing so hard.  I do the same thing. She is so creative and thoughtful, I'm always rooting for her.  Have you read her book? It's absolutely hilarious. Some wonderful stories there she didn't put up on the site.  She did an interview on Marc Maron's podcast recently that was also great! will check it out, thanks dude I check for the same reason! Her webcomics are so good and have helped so many people! I love her, she's made me laugh so many times.  Just the mention of Kenny Loggins' name... http://www.whosampled.com/

If you're into hip hop music especially, this site is great for finding samples in your favourite tracks, and other songs that use it.  Apparently http://www.duolingo.com/ is out of the top 500. So that's my answer. **GAMES:**

http://duolingo.com/

http://babadum.com/

**SRS FLASHCARDS:**

http://memrise.com

http://ankisrs.net/ (APP to download but they have a lot of uploaded decks to search through)

http://wanikani.com (Japanese)

**AUDIO RECORDINGS:**

http://forvo.com

https://rhinospike.com/

http://www.yorku.ca/earmstro/ipa/consonants.html

**DICTIONARY:**

http://wordreference.com

**ONLINE TEXTBOOK:**

http://www.csus.edu/indiv/s/sheaa/projects/genki/index.html

http://www.guidetojapanese.org/learn/complete

I also have a bunch of youtube channels, podcasts, and extra stuff for Italian, French, and Japanese that you can PM me if you want. Oh boy, something I can weigh in on!

For those of you looking into learning a language, Duolingo is definitely a good resource and a good place to start. However, one of the issues I've had learning a language is vocabulary, nuances, and learning from practical sources (such as a movie in spanish; that way you're feeling the language instead of going through an automated voice whose intention is to teach like "El... perro... negro").

Duolingo still has some work to do with this. They're doing better with vocab since the introduction of flash cards (they really just need a separate tree for it instead of making you learn everything all at once), but they don't really address the nuances of the language or teach you directly about certain idioms and specified constructs. They rely on the crowd-sourcing information through the discussions page to do that.

Once you go through about... I'd say half the overall language course?... You need to find another area to learn. A place that provides practical sources to draw from which address those nuances I was talking about. You *can* learn by textbook, but it takes so much longer than actually putting it into practice and understanding via examples. This is where I like to learn through some place like www.FluentU.com.

Completely different learning style. Videos from sources that aren't focused on teaching a language, just appealing to it, so you get the feel of a free-flowing environment you can adapt yourself to. It's a little more harsh and unforgiving than Duolingo, but even that's an overstatement. They're both rather generous in their teachings.

Duolingo is a good place to start, but find something else to finish. Thank you so much for this post! I just started using duolingo 405th.com  

Alternatively

therpf.com

They're prop making sites, and where I learned how to do [this](http://i.imgur.com/NSSTQWe.jpg) www.Freerice.com 

Make sure to disable adblock! Freerice.com 10/10

Freerice.com with adblock 0/10

Thank you for your suggestion That's how they pay for the rice Awesome site, and helps increase vocabulary. www.dontevenreply.com &gt;How can I contact you? 
Put up a classified ad, and try to sound like an idiot. I'll find you.

It'd have been interesting to see how it might had gone if somone tried to troll him. The rest of the faqs is quite hilarious. 

Edit: fixed comment to reflect the site isn't being updated anymore.  &gt; Dontevenreply.com

This puts me in mind of the guy that ran the fake photoshop thing - amazing what trolls can do :P I think you're thinking of [David Thorne](http://www.27bslash6.com) Thanks for posting this. Already went through everything on Don't Even Reply. This is more fuel for my side pain. Here's another good one: http://textastrophe.com/
Same type of stuff and this one actually updates.  Website Blocked




Location: www.dontevenreply.com





Your organization's policy prohibits access to websites categorized as Tasteless &amp; Offensive.

Return to the page you were previously viewing.


---

Aw :( &gt; websites categorized as Tasteless &amp; Offensive

Is your organization North Korea or what What the hell is going on with the comment section there? This is the greatest thing!!! Im just about crying of laughter right now! Do you now any more of these? I have some of his stuff archived. Here's one from his High school topic:

so our school had a woodshop class and i didnt like the guy who taught it but it was all the way in the basement and there were stairs leading up to it that went all the way up to the third floor so i started going on bathroom breaks and i would always go to the top of the stairs on the third floor and drop a nickel down the gap between the stairs so it would fall all the way down to the basement and land on this metal cabinet and make a loud ass bang when the guy was teaching class and at first i did it once every few days but then i started dropping the nickel at random times every day and i did it for weeks and eventually i could hear the teacher yelling "HEY CUT THAT OUT" and "IM GONNA GET YOU" so i upped it one and started dropping marbles and it was even *ing louder and one day he just yelled "GOD DAMMIT" and i heard him running up the steps but i was *ing out of there and he never caught me and he ended up putting a pillow on top of the cabinet so i took a cup of ketchup and dropped that on his pillow and the next day i looked and the entire cabinet was gone but there was still the hard concrete floor so i kept dropping stuff until the day i graduated and he never caught me.

English Paper: http://pastebin.com/dgFYA5wV (Warning: it's very long)

High School Stories: http://pastebin.com/j5DXu3zL

Hot Girl: http://pastebin.com/Qn5bZTzU Holy shit, I can't believe someone actually saved those! I must have been like 16 when I wrote them. If you are interested in similar things I have done, I was also the reddit user rambles_off_topic before I got banned from this subreddit. Wow! This is actually you? 

Given your incredible stories and skill for trolling, I would assume you're life is somewhat less than typical. Can I ask, what are you up to currently?  I have a desk job and own a house in a suburban neighborhood. Wait, didn't a tree fall through your house a year or two ago (I believe you play poker with my brother sometimes)?  Yes! Several trees crushed my house last year and I play poker with people who have brothers. Who is your brother? A fellow by the name of Dick Tony  Hah! I loved rambles - how come you got banned? According to the moderator that banned me, "We've taken to removing novelty accounts from the sub."  That is unfortunate, as I very much enjoyed those posts. You should just ramble off topic on this account. www.gearslutz.com (not porn) really good website for music producers. Good website for gear discussion when it comes to audio engineering.  Its really not focused on techniques as much. &gt;(not porn)
:(

Edit: Apparently it's my cakeday. I don't know how people know this but thanks for all the responses!

Edit2: I don't even know it's my cakeday.

 www.harkavagrant.com

History and literary webcomic, with a bit of a Canadian history emphasis but not overwhelmingly so. http://www.oglaf.com - Perhaps one of (if not THE) funniest webcomic out there. BUT it is INCREDIBLY NSFW, so it doesn't get shared that often. My favorite thing about Oglaf is that it's a whole world of sex obsessed nonsense. It's not just silly sex based comics, it's an entire medieval sex planet.  Holy shit. The first comic is titled "Cumsprite" and is very aptly named. I think I'll continue. http://skyscraperpage.com/database/country/2

A database with drawings of all the worlds high rises http://head-fi.org for all things headphones. I used to browse head-fi as well but then they banned all discussions of double-blind testing because they got tired of having bullshit like cable burn-in debunked by science. religiously?

Christianmingle I guess. http://www.badassoftheweek.com/

Every single week. My favorite, Chesty Puller. 

http://www.badassoftheweek.com/puller.html

&gt;Before he would leave Guadalcanal, Puller would be shot twice by snipers and hit once with shrapnel from an exploding mortar round, but none of that bullshit would slow him down because he had well over 200 hit points thanks to his 18 Constitution score and the fact that he was a Level 15 Marine Commander.  Shit, fucking Admiral Yamamoto himself could have swooped in on a giant fucking red dragon that breathed fire right in Puller's fucking face and Chesty would have just casually dusted himself off, broken the dragon's neck, and hurled the Admiral into an active volcano.

Edit: added quote.  My favourite: [Nzinga Mbande](http://www.badassoftheweek.com/index.cgi?id=491565226842)

&gt;When she approached the governor to negotiate, he **refused to give her a chair to sit on.**  Nzinga snapped her fingers, and **one of her servants got down on all fours so the Queen could sit on her back.**
&gt;
Once the negotiations were over, Nzinga stood up, ordered the servant to stand, and then **cut the servant's neck** in full view of the horrified Portuguese administrators.  As everyone stood there in stunned silence for a second thinking to themselves, "seriously, what the fuck just happened here," Nzinga calmly informed the Governor that the Goddamned Queen of Ndongo **never sits on the same chair twice.**

Motherfucker.
 Most of that is myth/legend and differs greatly from the Wikipedia page - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nzinga_of_Ndongo_and_Matamba

The writer of that site embellishes and/or exaggerates his stories.  Ohh shit. You mean the Chineese and Korean armies weren't trying to re-animate dead US soldiers for conscription into an army of the undead? http://www..com

Yes it exists, I visit every day to remind my self the uses of  On my computer, it renders as a Danish "" for some reason. Weird, I get a Swedish "". Can we just Finnish this joke already? Norway! Same here. I was really confused for a second They choose to mention that the symbol was "made famous by 4chan" and then go on to say that they don't support it being used for anything racist... I think they're talking about the unicode character specifically, not the symbol itself. Every time I've seen you answer a question on this sub (you get a shocking amount of top comments) someone says "hey kile". Can you please explain the origin of this. I have to know! a few days ago he had a highly rated top level comment in ask reddit, something about how starbucks baristas always spell peoples names wrong. The next comment was 'Hi Kile' or something along those lines, and now I think a bunch of people have him RES tagged to call him by the wrong name.

Also, he must spend a lot of time in /r/AskReddit/new/ or something, because he has top level comments on front page threads practically daily. http://366weirdmovies.com/

There's a bit of snobbery in some of their reviews, but overall it's a great place to find some lesser known downright weird movies, as well as be reminded of some classics you might have forgotten about. http://chiefobrienatwork.com/ http://www.zombo.com I love this site. I can do anything with it. Your dreams can come true!  The only limit is yourself. I just fucking opened it in my phone browser in the middle of the lobby in my school and I couldnt fucking turn the sound down

What the fuck I guess there is someone who can't do anything at ZomboCom. Sucks to be you, buddy. From my personal absurdly large library of internet things I bookmark and catalog, I present...a large-ish post.

[This enormous meme-dump](https://www.google.com/stars/alhtmnvdaefqk/profile/folio/ssf_84335a02f44ef827?hl=en-US) 

[Genius](http://genius.com/)

[A bunch of indie comics to browse](http://studygroupcomics.com/main/)

[The reddit marketplace, cause they know what we like](https://www.redditgifts.com/)

[The pirate bay, because I'm a dirty rotten thief](https://thepiratebay.vg/)

[The infinite jukebox, because I love it's services](http://labs.echonest.com/Uploader/index.html)

[Price geek, cause it's interesting](http://www.thepricegeek.com/)

[isitdown, because it's useful information to get quickly](http://www.isitdownrightnow.com/)

[hackertyper, cause it's fun](http://hackertyper.net/)

 [TvTropes.](http://tvtropes.org/)

Prepare to have your life ruined. www.bikeexif.com

Lots of pretty motorcycle pictures.  www.modthesims.info

It's a great site for sims mods, and while many avid fans have heard of it, few people realize the extent of what modding can do. (and this is just one site!) My examples include:

www.qz.com - Daily news mostly data driven high quality

www.signingsavvy.com - Sign language dictionary and tools

www.wordnik.com - dictionary and word of the day

www.xe.com - currency conversion tool

www.virustotal.com - virus scanning online http://thingsididlastnight.com/ This is gonna get buried, but I've got a whole list.

* [roadsideamerica.com](http://www.roadsideamerica.com/)

I always wanted to plan a road trip based on the stuff on this site, since I was like 11 years old and discovered it, but I haven't yet. Maybe I'll do it this summer. I want to see the Corn Palace and South of the Border especially, plus all of the Dinosaur parks, like you see in Pee-Wee's Big Adventure. I still get stoked whenever I see a Muffler Man because of this site.

* [Tiki Gardens](http://home.earthlink.net/~tikigardens/page1.html)

I have a thing for kitschy attractions. Tiki Gardens is a defunct garden of tikis in Florida. I used to steal this welcome page's background for all the sites I'd make as a kid.

* [Fourfa](http://www.fourfa.com/)

This site, also known as "What the heck *is* emo anyway?" is an awesome resource on a genre of music that I've never been super into. It's just a badass site. Look at those exploded diagrams. Shit. It makes me wish I were more into emo.

* [A Boke of Gode Cookery](http://www.godecookery.com/goderec/goderec.htm)

Ever wonder what knights and medieval peasants actually ate? This site'll show you how to cook it. Plus there's this thing where like they made a peacock shoot mercury out of its mouth. Yum.

* [Dinosaur Dracula](http://dinosaurdracula.com/)

A site about 80's pop culture, with cool toys and other fun stuff. The dude who writes it's really funny and goes off for Halloween.

There's also this site I used to be obsessed with with this dude who had all pictures of ugly old food from cookbooks from like the 40's70's and he was mad funny. I can't find it and it's driving me crazy. Now there are a bunch of other sites about that same topic, but none are as good. Ughh. If anyone finds it, let me know.

 Wait But Why is a great site with really interesting posts. I can't really put into words how neat it is, but what I can do is show you a blog series where one of the writers went to various countries and, in addition to sharing his experiences, explained the basics of that country and its history in one paragraph.

The series is called [Odd Things in Odd Places](http://waitbutwhy.com/2014/07/odd-things-odd-places-intro.html), and it's a good place to start with the site. www.8tracks.com has been my go-to music streaming site at work lately.  As a piano player of 11 years, it has to be www.imslp.org one of the biggest sources of sheet music for different instruments. Are you like me in that you're an obsessive and you *need* the highest-res and color balanced artwork for your digital music collection? 

http://www.albumartexchange.com might be the site for you. Wait there are other sites?  I used to work at a PC repair shop and had to call HP warranty support in India almost every day.  Talking with someone using a script + language barrier = aggravating and time consuming.  I learned that if you select the option for Spanish you get transferred to a call center in Texas.  From there you can just speak English. GENIUS. Until one day you're sent to Mexico then you're follada.
Holy guacamole thanks for the ORO *jodido Living in Canada, if you need to speak with a Bell agent, many are also going n India I believe but if you choose french as an option you're transferred to Quebec and from there you can safely speak English.  Yup, that's because most places that hire Spanish-speaking technicians are hiring bilingual ones. We actually told some of our customers that when they called our tech support department when I worked at an old router support company. You know the Mr. Clean Magic Erasers that are so awesome?  They are just melamine foam, which you can buy unbranded in bundle packs of 30-100 on eBay and Amazon for less than $0.25 each. Melamine foam comes in different densities, and the magic eraser is denser than any of the cheap stuff I've used. It'll still save you money; just remember you'll need more. Nice try Mr. Clean When signing up for stuff where you don't need to verify your ID (specifically magazines) use a different name from your own to find out which companies are selling your information.

I'm not sure who Dr. Daquarius McFlopperson III is, but I am not him. Use the company's name when you sign up! They'll give themselves away. I have my own domain, so every sign up its like reddit@mydomain, stumbleupon@, fb@. Every groupon-like has ended selling me out For those who want to do this but don't own a domain, google "email masking", there are services that do exactly that! &gt; Dr. Daquarius McFlopperson III

EAST CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY My wife's dog, gomez puddlemaker, had a credit card application sent to him thanks to some lowlife, dog related, magazine.  He may have better credit than I do, in fact.  SANTOS L HALPER Used to work at a rental car place. Yhe upgrade prices are made up by the counter person. They offer whatever they think you'll pay. Reserve a economy and haggle over the upgrade price. You'll save a ton over booking the higher class. I feel like every time I reserve an economy I get something bigger for free because they never have enough economy models to go around. Not surprising. We only had two economy class cars one the whole lot. One was a fiat 500. My manager referred to it as the 'threat car' to try to get people to upgrade. She would actually upgrade people for free to keep it on the lot to threaten people into upgrading.  "Please upgrade to a nicer car, you don't want that.." "No, we actually kind of like it.." "Ok fine, have the nicer car for free"

Lol I'm so confused, but I love it If you're a freelancer in the UK, some companies either don't know or don't want you to know that you can charge/bill them interest for late payments.

&gt;[Late payment](http://www.londonfreelance.org/feesguide/index.php?section=General&amp;subsect=Late+and+problem+payments&amp;page=Advice)

&gt;Clients who pay late must by law pay compensation and penalty interest.

&gt;The Late Payment of Commercial Debt (Interest) Act (1988) was amended in 2002 to include fixed penalties in addition to interest. For debt of less than 1000 the penalty is 40, rising to 70 for debts up to 9,999.99 and 100 above that. Interest is payable at 8 per cent over Bank of England base rate. The penalties and interest now apply to all businesses regardless of size.

&gt;The payment clock starts ticking when you deliver the work, or on the day when your client has notice of the amount they owe you, whichever is the later. The client then has 30 days to pay - unless the freelance and the client agree on a reasonable alternative period. Clients must not pressure freelances or attempt to impose unreasonable payment terms.

&gt;Be clear when you invoice for work that "payment is due within 30 days".

&gt;The UK government suggests this form of words on invoices:

&gt;We understand and will exercise our statutory right to interest and compensation for debt recovery costs under the late payment legislation if we are not paid according to agreed credit terms.

&gt;but the law applies whether or not you mention it on an invoice.

&gt;Copies of the official guide should be available from the government and industry website www.payontime.co.uk  You can do this in the US too.  Just make sure your invoice states as much. Just because a store is branded as a certain company doesn't mean it's owned and operated by that company. For example, if you don't like Shell gas and decide to go to the Exxon down the street, Shell may still own and operate that store but fly Exxon's flag. They just pay Exxon a small fee to keep their branding up.  My step brother used to work for a company that owned gas stations.  He had a hell of a time when the BP oil spill happened.  The store runners at BP stations were losing business when they really had very little to do with the actual BP company.  Some didn't even get any gas derived from BP oil. Christ, we can't even vote with our wallets. Nope.  There's usually 4 or 5 companies that own basically all of the brands in a given market segment.  Unless you really dig deep, voting with your wallet usually just changes which channel the money flows up, rather than it's actual destination. It's like they are creating the illusion of competition. It isn't quite as bad as an actual monopoly, or even as bad companies scheming together to act as a monopoly, but I think it can be almost as bad for consumers. "companies scheming together to act as a monopoly"
the word you're looking for is "cartel" I used to work for a gas station on the side. When our tanks were filled the truck would go down the street resupplying all of the stations. People bitch about gas being bad from one brand but it all came from the same refinery. A lot of TV ads, but especially toothpaste and shampoo, show the customer using way, way more than needed. Extra gum did this brilliant campaign where they told you take two pieces of gum after a meal. Not one. Well, it's not called Enough gum. So, I don't know if this is a true story or not. One time I heard that a toothpaste company was wanting to increase their profits. This guy told them he could nearly double their profits and in return he wanted 10% of the increase. So they agreed, and he told them to make the opening larger. More toothpaste out = more toothpaste bought. I've heard variants on that story before, including a man who went to a manufacturer of boxed matches with a proposal to cut their costs by millions with no investment, if they'd give him a cut of the savings.

So boxed matches started having the strike here abrasive on one side of the box instead of both.

I don't know if that is true either, but what the heck, they are both great stories... These stories only sound plausible to me if they're something that the company shouldn't have thought of already.  "Bigger toothpaste hole means they use more toothpaste" is fairly clever, if obvious in hindsight.  "Don't add a redundant abrasive strip" seems like something they could come up with if they put any thought at all into cost cutting. One of my all time favorites about production costs waste goes as follows(dont know how true)

A company realized for some reason they were losing a lot of money on shipping out empty boxes. They hired a system analysis and design guy to take a look to see what he could do. 

He comes back a bit later and offers a robot that would weigh the boxes and could tell if a box was empty. It would ring a buzzer if the box was empty and the workers would have to go and fill the box and shut off the buzzer. 

This was working well for a few months, getting a couple boxes a day. 

After a few months, the guy in charge was noticing that the stat sheet showed no boxes were turning up empty. he thought something was wrong with the machine. 

he goes down to the warehouse to see the workers had set up a fan blowing on the conveyor belt before it got to the machine to test if the box was empty. He asked one of the workers about it. 

"Well..we got tired of getting up every time the buzzer went off, so we set up fans. If the box was empty, it'd get blown of the conveyor belt." 

Lots of money spent on a job that could be done using fans.  It's most likely an urban legend of sorts, but it does illustrate an important point:

If you want to make an annoying task more efficient, pay the laziest person you can find to do it. "Why didn't you show up to work yesterday?  And the day before?"

"Eh, didn't feel like it."

"Who the hell authorized hiring this lazy guy?" "He's off today" Everybody always forgets that one little caveat, that if he can find a way to bend the rules before he finds the easiest solution he'll sure as fuck do that first I always hear this anecdote and it feels like a feel-good excuse for being a bad worker.

Lazy people aren't the ones solving these problems. It's clever people that don't want to do repetitive/annoying tasks, just like any sane person. As a person who works in manufacturing, this story does not surprise me. I can not tell you just how many issues we could fix if the management actually listened to us "peons"

 We are down there every day dealing with it. They just see numbers and blueprints.

Example. I build hydraulic motors. The first station on the line is loading slow. Making me wait for it to finish loading the info for EVERY station on the line. The info then becomes confined transfering straight from station to station so its near instant. Its becoming an issue causing some delays while I wait. I suggest we add a station directly before it. A simple box and upload sensor.  It would preload the info on its own station and allow me to work at full speed.

The suits think its to costly and time consuming to do. So they get our engineers on it to try and reduce load time and what not. 3 months later they have managed to reduce it by 2 seconds... I am still stuck waiting for 30+ seconds... we produce 300 units a night at 800 bucks a pop. At full speed we can put out about 1 unit every 2 mins or so. 30seconds a unit is alot of time.

They spent so much time of our engineers and techs. It cost about 5 times as much for them to fuck around as it did when they actually listened to me and put the damn box and load sensor in. Oh, business is full of urban legend stories. It's also full of bone jarringly stupid decisions. IBM and Microsoft. Motorola and Sony televisions. Going way back to Western Union and Bell Telephone and probably far back beyond that. Never underestimate the ability of big organizations to miss the obvious. What if we tell them to brush their tongues? But that's a good idea. You don't need any extra toothpaste for it, though. And really a tongue scraper is best... wait, OR IS IT!? Did I buy a tongue scraper for no reason? This is exactly the strategy they used for the "plop plop, fizz fizz" ads.....the dosage is one, but everybody uses two because of the jingle. Damn you Don Draper This was true, but they have since changed the dosage to two. They are smaller and have more filler now so they save even more.  Laundry detergent is the most notable example for me, they purposely make the directions confusing and the lines on the inside impossible to see.  There are like, 5 levels and they are marked by a small ring of the same material as the cap and you can't read any of it.  So everyone just fills it up and uses way too much. Also detergent is easy as hell to make. One bar of Ivory soap, shredded, one cup of washing soda, and cup of Borax. That's it.

My kid was super sensitive to dyes and perfumes as a baby (thankfully he grew out of that) so I learned how to make it. It's cheap as hell this way, I maybe spend $10 a year on laundry detergent.

Edit- a couple questions keep popping up.

&gt;Washing soda is exactly that- it's a product. I get this: http://www.armandhammer.com/siteimages/Product/Large_Vert/e1f2ac0c-ab22-45dc-b0df-057a7e8fda5c.png, it's usually next to the Borax. There is also a way to 'cook' baking soda into washing soda later in the comments, but I haven't tried it. There may also be other brands available, check with your supermarket. Also it is waaaay cheaper at the grocery store.

&gt;I grate the soap on a cheese grater with about 2mm holes I got at the dollar store. Like this: http://www.denovoverseas.com/images/products/graters/cheese-grater-big.jpg Actually, **I** don't. I have two kids, they take turns doing it.

&gt;I use Ivory because my husband likes Ivory soap, so we always have some around. You probably could use different soap, but I haven't dabbled because I'm lazy. I mean, efficient.

&gt;I use a very small amount- I keep it in an clean screw-top 750mm wine bottle and use the cap as a guide- one cap per load. Sometimes I toss in a cup of vinegar.

&gt;There are people offering some cool 'recipes' for other cleaning stuff in this thread, so that's cool. You know how it's almost impossible to get scammers to stop calling?

Well, *almost.*  I'm 100% convinced there are black market phone lists floating around, because I'm almost positive I got myself removed from at least one of them, because practically overnight I stopped getting scam calls from a a wide variety of different scams, and with one simple trick!

"Hold on a sec, I have to turn on the recording for the FCC"

Obviously this only works in the US, but you could substitute your local regulatory agency and it would probably work just as well.  The dude hung up so fast it wasn't even funny, and I never got any more calls from that scam and I stopped getting calls from different scams pretty quickly after I created this trick. Also effective is to pretend they're calling into a made up tech support line. Immediately ask them for their name and last four digits of their social, make it believable, and you can definitely confuse the hell out of them. People who call me play by my rules. Welcome to the funhouse bitch. Similarly, you can twist it around and try to sell them something. This is literally the best way to work on your sales pitch. I did that once and got into an argument with the telemarketer about who called who I guess that [this "funhouse bitch" moment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fl5uhjJFTiE) is pretty famous, but I don't know how much so there it is just in case you don't know about it. I used to work at a call center that handled people canceling services. We were paid based on how many people we saved from canceling compared with the total number of potential saves. However certain times customers didn't count as potential saves, these people we just needed to get off the phone ASAP. If you want to cancel a service you want to not be a potential save. To do this I suggest stating that you are moving to another country. Canceling cable? Say you're moving to the United Arab Emirates, it'll take two minutes. Bed Bath &amp; Beyond coupons never expire. Fucking Bevers. I will not buy a Sodastream full price, Bevers! I WILL NOT DO IT! Hello everyone! Currently I am an associate at BB&amp;B and would like to clarify some things. 

Yes, we can use expired coupons BUT only the paper ones we send out in the mail. We CANNOT accept an expired email coupon. The computer does it for us, there is nothing I can do. 

With the new paper coupons that start at a 20% and go to a 10% after a certain date, will remain at a 10% after expiration. 

Another thing about coupons, we can use as many as you want, as long as you have that many items. (i.e. you have 6 20%/10% coupons, we can use them on 6 items of any price.) It gets a little confusing with the $5 off $15 coupon. If you are combining a 20% coupon with a $5 off $15 coupon and you have 2 items, the 20% will come off of the highest price item automatically with any transaction, but if your second item is under $14.99, we can't use the $5 off $15. The coupon applies to the remaining total price which has to reach the cut-off limit of $14.99. That's part of the reason why we have cheaper item up at the registers.

We try to get you the best deal possible with their coupons, but some people insist that the way they planned it out will save them the most money. You can designate your coupons to certain items, but I promise you that we are trained to save you as much as we can with the knowledge we have. 

If you are having/wanting to order from our website, (this is the BEYOND part. We can look up pretty much anything and there is a 95% chance we can find it on our website. *Yes! We have mattresses and chicken coops!*) come in store. We can save you the hassle, we can waive the shipping fee, (If you order at home and your total is under $49.99, there will be a shipping fee) and if you aren't being a total ass hat, we can apply 20% coupons at no expense to the stock piled ones in your car. 

Here's a freebee! 
You know our towel room? The towels that are above a normal arms reach are faked out. It's just one towel wrapped around a styrofoam (not sure if I spelled that right) block that has grooves in it to make it look like four towels. 

EDIT: Thanks for my first gold ever, stranger! 

EDIT2: Grammar 

EDIT 3: Just thought of another thing! We fold all of our towels a certain way, so if anyone feels the need to unfold them and be gracious to try and refold them and put them back, just don't. I will try to take some pictures on my shift today to show you all what I mean.  The towel trick: http://imgur.com/1UyFN ITS ALL A LIE and you can use a bunch of those 20% coupons at one time. I've NEVER paid full-price for Sirius XM radio. I received a free year with the purchase of my car. After that year was up they called me up to renew at something like $20/mo. "Why would I pay you $20/mo to listen to whatever you send me, when I could pay $10/mo to Spotify and listen to whatever I want?"

"Sir, we can offer you 6 months of Sirius XM for $20. Would you be interested in that?" "Yep - I don't want to be autobilled, invoice me."

I've performed this dance every 6 months for the past 3 years. One thing that i find funny is a water bottling plant in Scotland. One factory and 5 different kinds come out. Marks And Spencer water is one of them. The water is exactly the same but the price difference between the 5 brands is a lot. There ~~is~~ are tons of free services that give you the ability to create a "throwable email", "disposable email" so you can sign, confirm the email, without having to use your own email.

edit: One that I'm using regularly is dispostable.com, from the old team that was managing mininova www.10minutemail.com And Melt Mail.

https://meltmail.com

They give you a few options for how long the email forwarding will last, from 3 to 24 hours. There are lots of companies that if you order from them online and stop at the last step and leave...within a couple of days you'll get an email offering you a substantial discount on what you were about to buy at full price I help setup site and cart abandon emails.  Its usually more like 30-60 minutes after leaving rather than a few days, depending on what triggers you set off browsing the site. Give me some specific sites! Logitech. I nearly bought a mouse from there, and when I hit close they gave me a popup offering free shipping.

Would've been awesome if I didn't have Amazon Prime. Living in a country where shipping is free 90% of the time is nice. Not a perfect example, but Audible will give you a discount for a few months if you try to cancel your subscription. I had a locksmith tell me that I could NOT program my own RFID-chipped key using two original keys and my Jeep's computer and that I either had to have him do it or pay even more at a dealership to have them do it. And buy a chipped key from him for $30.

I knew better.  I bought an $8 chipped key off ebay, programmed it myself using instructions online (the seller also sent me programming instructions) and had it physically copied at that same locksmith for $2. Also... there were instructions in the jeep's owner's manual.

Note: the way the computer programs the key is that you basically insert the first original key turn the ignition on, then the second original key, and then the new key that then gets programmed. I also had a non-chipped key that I had made earlier (just to open the jeep's doors) and taped that key to the chipped blank key to fool the jeep's computer into thinking that the chipped key was being inserted. 

Locksmith would have charged me upwards of $80 when I did it myself for about $12. 

Locksmiths hate me. You're lucky. When I needed an extra key for my car the dealer wanted to charge me $500 total.

* $100 for the key
* $50 to cut it
* $50 to program it with the alarm
* $300 to program it to the ECU for transponder

I ended up getting a $50 key with a transponder and chip's on eBay and a $100 transponder programmer.  I've noticed that lots of places, like home depot, won't cut "valet" keys anymore. I used to buy blanks, have them cut, and program them myself. Now some places won't cut anything with a chip in it. In Canada, if you don't want to put up with UPS's bullshit, add a box to your address, as follows.

123 Anystreet Apt 6
should be replaced with 
123 Anystreet *Box 6*

This will cause the system to select Canada Post for shipping. write companies letters. They usually give you free swag, or at least discounts. I wrote sega once a long time ago. They sent me the coolest Sonic &amp; Knuckles t-shirt ever. The game had just came out for genesis. I loved that shirt.  

edit: snail mail works best. Hand written or printed doesnt matter, Also dont be an asshole.  My father does this (he's sixty).  He once wrote a letter bitching to a major paint company about the quality of some paint he'd used on his house (the dye lots were inconsistent).  They refunded him everything and sent him new paint.   This was several thousand dollars of quality stuff, enough for an entire suburban house.  Good value, the paint probably didn't cost them much and the two of you have likely told that story dozens of times  I'm off to the store right now to buy a gallon of paint, and I'll make sure it'll be from none other than "major paint company" I wrote to Hershey as a child saying how much I loved them. Just got a thank you letter and a pamphlet explaining their history. Woo free pamphlet? Truth. I bought a six pack of beer from a microbrewery about 10 years ago. Every bottle overflowed when uncapped. I wrote them a letter, and they sent me two branded pint glasses and enough cash to buy another sixer. Used to work at cvs for a little bit, I did not give a fuck, if you came bitching at me about coupons/mispriced items/etc I will mark it down.

How did I come to do this? When I started I  used to call the manager every time a customer had a complaint and she just told me to give them the deals whenever it would happen and not to call her.

I'm pretty sure it's like this for most places. But be nice at first, we assume you're gonna get bitchy and just end up giving you the deals. I used to work at Radioshack.  We had a "$50 rule."  If the customer was complaining about something that could be solved for less than $50, immediately say yes and do it.  Nobody would get in trouble for spending less than $50 to retain a customer.

Anything more than $50 needed regional management's approval.

Of course, Radioshack is out of business now, so I don't know whether that customer service model actually works. Overstock is $35. Every agent has up to $35 per call to make a customer feel good about their problems. Anything over requires a lead okay, which they can get by turning 180 degrees and asking.

I've flat given away thousands of dollars to make long time customers happy when I worked at overstock. I have no way to verify this. I have a friend that worked for a razor manufacturer. I won't say which one because I only have his word for this. He told me that the honers, that sharpen blades, had several settings - let's call them "dull", "normal", and "extra sharp". The sharper the setting, the slower the assembly line, and they wanted the assembly line to run as fast as possible. "Normal" was the setting used for everyday manufacturing. When they wanted to make more money, they came out with a "new, improved" version of the razor, at higher cost, of course, even though the manufacturing cost for the new razor was no more than for the old one. They might not change anything but the handle design to make the razor fit your hand differently. To establish demand for the new razor, several months before introducing the new razors they turned the honers on the current line down to "dull". When they started to manufacture the "new, improved" razors they turned the honers on those razors up to "extra sharp". Joe Consumer bought a package of the "new, improved" razors and tried them and declared "wow, these are really good." Demand for the new razors went up and they earned a spot on the retail shelves. Eventually, manufacturing for the old razors ceased, and the honers for the new razors were turned down to "normal" to speed up the production lines, and the change-over from the old product to the new one was complete. Net result was that Joe Consumer was paying more for essentially the same product and Mr. stockholder had a bigger dividend and Mr. CEO had a bigger bonus. that is sadly completely believable. Mr. CEO? That guy was destined for his job. If you make a "good faith effort to pay" medical bills they can't be sent to collections. Offer to pay 20 bucks a month till its paid and the hospital or doc will offen be willing to settle for half payment and closing the bill. Just get it in writing.  I once owed the hospital $2,000 for an emergency visit. At the time I was 100% broke, and after paying about $500 of it off, I knew I couldn't afford any more if I didn't want to starve. I wrote a letter to the hospital explaining my predicament and illustrating the reasons why I couldn't ask my family for the money. They forgave the rest of it entirely.  This is because the actual amount they would expect to receive from insurance is usually as low as 30% for Medicaid, higher for private insurance but nowhere near 100%.  Your $500 is pretty close to what it would actually be, so they were happy with it.

Anyone (uninsured) that pays the full face value of a medical bill wasted a bunch of money.  They will always cut the bill down for self pay. This is something not enough people understand about insurance. I used to work for a billing office at a doctor that would charge a little over $200 for an office visit, and I got yelled at all the time because people thought that amount was absurd.

Well...it *is* absurd! But no one ever pays it. Every insurance company has an amount that they will contractually pay for a service with every given doctor, called an *allowable,* for this particular provider, the allowables ranged from around $70 on the low end (Medicaid) to around $150 on the high end. Pretty much the only payer who ever pays 100% of anything is Worker's Comp.

Most insurances split up the allowable amount between what they actually pay, and your copay. (I.E, you pay $20, Insurance pays $80, the remaining $110 is written off and no one gets it)

Now, if you have a Deductible, what happens is that the bill still gets reduced to the allowable amount, but you're responsible for that entire allowable amount. This is all determined insurance side, by the way, the doctor has *zero* control over this other than simply writing off balances. If an allowable amount is $100, it's going to be $100 if the doctor charges $200, or $2000. Ultimately, what the doctor charges has very little bearing on what things end up costing, most doctors just set a baseline that they know is higher than all their allowables, for the sake of ease. Does this work with student loans as well? 
 AAAAHHAHHAHAHAHAHH

brb killing myself You may be on to something. Death is one of the (few) extenuating circumstances that can get you out of paying the loan. [Doesn't mean they won't try](http://money.cnn.com/2014/07/28/pf/parents-student-loans/)

They spent a lot of time and money to be allowed to make students their slaves, they WILL get a return on that investment. My thoughts exactly. I couldn't help but notice that he's not back yet though.  Yep. It's not just medical bills, either. Most electric companies and other companies that offer important/necessary services will make exceptions if you just call and talk to them about it. [The London Underground lies to you to make everything run smoother.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IrHRQSm6LIs)  
Flowers.

Stop using the big corporate; national flower companies that pay pennies on the dollar to local flourist. Instead, call the same shops that the shit hole 800-number company contracts to locally. Chances are they will give you a better deal, more flowers, and better quality simply because they actually get more money from you via direct sale. Florists HATE 800-flower companies. It's screws them out of profits but they're forced to use them because so many people use the corporate flower brokers. If you stay at a hospital, ask for an itemized bill, especially if staying at a state or locally funded one. Reason for this, hospitals like to sneak in hidden charges for services you didn't receive like pelvic exams when you went in for a broken arm. This can save you hundreds of dollars on your bill.  $37 for Tylenol my ass! I once bought my daughter a $150 band-aid. $15 for fluid replenishment = 1 can lemonade If you want to cancel a hotel reservation, but you're within the penalty period, call up/go online and move the reservation forward by a couple of weeks, a month, whatever. Just enough to get you out of the cancellation penalty period. Then call up/go online the next day and cancel the reservation. This doesn't always work. My hotel will note that you modified your reservation and on what day you did it to prevent exactly this.  Then just keep pushing your reservation forward until you eventually decide you want it :) "umm, yeah, I'll be checking in on January 23rd, 2150" "By then the wifi will be free right?" Nicer (smarter) hotels will charge you and forward the balance to a future date, making it necessary to book another stay. LPT:  Continue moving forward reservation for years on end until you take a vacation there. Several airlines have a policy where you can cancel your flight ticket with a full refund within 24 hours of booking it. Most airlines' cancellation policies do not state this fact explicitly on the websites (E.g: I've done a complete scan Lufthansa's and United's cancellation policies on their website but couldn't find this anywhere. Their customer care confirmed it on phone)

This is particularly useful when you have to show make confirmed flight reservations to be submitted along with your Visa applications (Schengen, US, UK, etc need this). I've used this method several times for my Visa applications to UK and Schengen successfully I believe this is actually law in the US.  Yes, this is actually law in the US (http://www.dot.gov/airconsumer/notice-24hour-reservation). I've done this successfully with Delta and Spirit. With Delta I cancelled and re-booked the exact same seats because the price went down $50 each. **warning**. Airlines can circumvent this by offering you a 24 hour hold period for your tickets. I encountered this with American Airlines when I went to cancel my tickets 12 hours after buying them and after pointing out the law about 24 hour refunds I learned about this other option they have.  You don't actually have to give any of your real information on-line like ever. But everybody just naively volunteers it anyway.  Yeah. According to the internet, I am Ethan Barry, a forty year old married stockbroker with two kids and a nice house. I am none of these things IRL. Nice try, Ethan. It's too late to throw us off. Yah Ethan.  You upper middle class bastard. Airlines sometimes have cheaper flights to distant destinations that change planes in your intended destination city.   So if you are flying to Chicago, you might book a flight to LA, knowing it stops in Chicago, and simply get off and not board the second leg.  There is a web site called Skiplagged.com that is being sued by United for informing people how to take advantage of it.   If you're going to do this, for the love of God don't check any bags. Yes.  That's part of it.  You also don't book it round trip. I have heard of people who had a stop off and missed the connecting flight due to weather.

They talked to the airline and they had no other flight to get to the event in time so they rented a car.

5 days later when they went to get their flight home, they were told it their ticket was cancelled because they did not take the 2nd leg of the original flight.   That exact scenario happened to my husband, he had to spend the day on stand by and was delayed 6 hours on his return flight because they'd cancelled his return tickets *even though they knew why he hadn't made the connection*. The United suit was thrown out this week. It could be refiled somewhere else though because it was thrown out on procedural grounds rather than the merits of the case 

http://www.usatoday.com/story/todayinthesky/2015/05/04/united-skiplagged-lawsuit-federal/26864961/ Basically to drown the defendant in legal fees.  Airlines have rules in place to deter people from this. If there is a return flight it will usually be cancelled without a refund, and you'll eventually get flagged for it if you do it enough. And if you care about your frequent flier account don't do this. It's against the rules you agreed to and they'll happily cancel your account. I've got hundreds of thousands of miles flown on the carrier I use. No way I'd ever think of trying this. This works great until your flight gets cancelled. Suddenly your flight to Chicago is now going via Boston (I don't know American geography) and you never see LA.  
EDIT: Swap Chicago and LA. This happened to me earlier this week.  I told the airport that I had to be routed through that city before my final (fake destination) because i was meeting up with someone there.  It worked fine. The airline isn't required to accommodate you in that case.  The agent could've just told you to pound sand and you'd have been stuck. If the only reason you are buying something is because it is on sale, you still aren't saving money. Nope, I refuse to believe this, I definitely have saved 100s of dollars on all these Steam games I've played for 30 min each. There will come a time when the internet is kill and all I have are those 50 singleplayer indie games. Until then, I'll just carry on wasting ny time on Dota 2 yeah like you actually downloaded them Me: Mom, why did you buy that machete? 
Mom: Because it was on sale!
Me: You know what is cheaper than a machete that is on sale? Not buying the machete.  If she also recently bought a hockey goalie mask, she may have plans for you. There is an East Indian saying that my grandma used to say a lot. "If you only have 50 cents, and an elephant is on sale for 50 cents you still shouldn't buy that elephant because you don't need an elephant." Oh no, I *need* an elephant [deleted] If you're calling a support line, curse angrily at the robo-receptionist. The software on the other end will sense that you are having trouble with the phone tree and connect you with an actual person. True. I called somewhere and could not get to an agent. No amount of pressing 0 or yelling "Agent! Representative!" worked. The second I said "Fuck you" to the robot...."Please hold while we connect you to the first available representative" Instead of swearing I start talking in a random language, or total gibberish. That works too most times. 

Robot: Dial 1 for...

Me: Ooga booga blah blah wroom wroom

Robot: Please wait while I connect you to an agent.

done! &gt;Ooga booga blah blah wroom wroom

You've played The Sims too. Awhden fwanana awaya blouabist  Until someone comes online who only speaks ooga booga, specifically because you spoke his language. 

 Usually pressing 0 a few times will net you the same result. 
Also, cursing angrily will only work if the voice recognition system actually has a built in solution for a default, that takes you to a representative. If it's default is to repeat the message or hangup, you're still SOL. Most companies have better practices in place than that though. 

... I design call flows for a living. 

Edit: thank you for your interests and great discussion about my job! Surprised so many people found this so interesting. So YOU'RE the one to blame!!! Hey, in my defense, the company I work for has outstanding ratings as far as call services are concerned. In fact, it rates higher than every other member connection channel!

... but also, yes.  I use to press 0 to get to a rep in the past, but there are a few numbers now that will disconnect you if you press 0 again after it repeats the message.  I know when you call Microsoft for a license key you can cuss at it and it will forward you to an actual person and they usually speak English too! I did this a couple of weeks ago on the Nintendo support phone line. There was literally no path to speaking with an actual operator for my problem. I went through all of the options several times.

I eventually just said, "Can't just fucking talk to a fucking real person goddamnit!" And boom, speaking with a real and helpful person. Please Please Please stop swearing once you reach an actual person.  I know you are frustrated but this is not ATT you are callinga  son of a bitch this is some poor shlub making barely more then minimum wage that probably hates UVerse more then you do.  Also at least at the call centre I worked at I could hang up on you for swearing after one warning.   The name-brand products you buy at Wal-mart are of inferior quality to the same product at regular stores. Learned this in a business course, specifically in reference to name-brand shampoo and toothbrush but applicable to many products. Wal-mart demands lower prices, so manufacturers lower quality. This is also true of electronics at walmart.  I bought a Samsung TV from Walmart, the panel was made by Sharp.  I returned it and got it from Crutchfield, the same exact model.  It had a Samsung panel.  Google "Samsung panel lottery".  Most of the TV manufacturers do this for walmart.  BTW, the Samsung panel was far superior to the Sharp although the published technical specs were the same. Generic store brands of medication contain the same active ingredient as the name brand. The only different is binders and fillers. There's no reason to not try the generic brand first.  In the UK at least, there is a 'PL' code - product licence on medicines. Everything with the same code has identical active ingredients - regardless of the cost of the package.  You can get free cups of water anywhere that sells food. At Disney this saved so much money.  This is true in the US, but not always true (or a good idea) elsewhere in the world. Is this really true? I always thought it was, but then I was denied water at a pizza place once and when I tried to look it up, I couldn't find any laws about it [Planned obsolescence - WIKI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planned_obsolescence) 

Companies design products in such a way that they become obsolete within a certain time frame. 

A really nasty example is inkt toners that are programmed to show up empty while they still contain inkt. So the printer refuses to print since the chip of the toner says it's empty. And you are forced to buy a new one.  


  [deleted] There are a number of other ways to circumvent these as well google your printer brand and model with "reset ink sensor" or "reset toner" or some such, you'll probably find something. Thank you! Here's a question. Why would they make an ink cartridge that makes itself unusable while it still has 1/3 of the ink left instead of making an ink cartridge that contains 2/3 of the ink the original cartridge helps. Sounds like the same result is achieved with less production cost. I guess you get to sell a cartridge with the selling point of large ink capacity but is that something that people look at when buying ink? I haven't bought ink so I don't know. What I do know is that there's some russian dude who came up with a good firmware hack that stops the miss-read by the printer. Although I guess so does everyone else here who's probably seen the Lightbulb Conspiracy.  My dell printer has had 'low toner' for five and a half years now. Still prints good copies... The biggest planned obsolescence products are the one that require frequent software updates. Eventually your hardware will get left behind and you end up moving unto the next upgrade. Smart phones baby.  National Do Not Mail List
http://www.directmail.com/mail_preference/

National Do Not Call Registry
https://www.donotcall.gov/ Did the 2nd a month ago, still receive at least 3 calls a day. Any repercussions for these people? It's illegal, and they are fined ~~per violation~~. Submit a complaint via the website.

Edit: Not per violation. Still, submit a complaint, it will help others who are also being spammed. Mobile videogames are literally designed to be frustrating instead of fun.

A great many mobile titles make use of mechanics that are put together with the intention of nurturing habitual behavior, frustrating a user, and then offering a slightly more enjoyable experience after money has been spent. This tactic has proven to be a more profitable model than actually offering entertainment, to the point where some companies take very careful steps to ensure that their games don't accidentally end up being fun.

That sounds like satire, I know, but it's actually true.

Let's suppose you had a game like Galaga, for instance. A mobile game version monetized with in-application microtransactions would probably give you the option to upgrade your ship and your weapons, purchase additional lives, and other such things. You'd be able to earn "soft" (or "grind") currency by killing enemy units, with small amounts of "hard" (or "premium") currency being awarded when you advanced in level or something.

Now, that *sounds* like it would be alright, doesn't it? Here's where the manipulative part comes in, though: In this hypothetical game, it's virtually impossible to make it beyond the third level without spending money, because there's a "recommended" item of some kind that can only be purchased with hard currency... and it's impossible to earn enough of it from within the game. This is called a "pay wall," and a great many mobile games take advantage of the concept, albeit to varying degrees.

There's only one small problem with the game concept I just outlined: It might actually be kind of fun to play. As I mentioned previously, it's a far better idea to *frustrate* a user, and then give them a marginally better experience after they've converted to a paying player. So, maybe what we'd do with our hypothetical title is have all of the enemies slowly become more and more difficult over the course of five levels or so. Then, when a user inevitably died, we'd show them some kind of pop-up message:

"The aliens are advancing!" it might say. "Spend 15 SPACE CREDITS to revive?"

You'd be given the option to spend 15 hard currency for a single life... or to buy a *pack* of lives for only *50!* Either way, immediately after you made the purchase, the game would become easier and more satisfying. If there were random items dropped by destroyed enemies, you'd see slightly more of them. Your score would increase more quickly, and there would be more explosions (or in the case of a game like Candy Crush, more flashing lights and noises).

After the level was done, you'd get bumped back into the typical difficulty and the same frustrating experience... until you spent more money, of course.

**TL;DR: Unlock this TL;DR for $3.99!** I refuse to play any energy or coin-based games on my phone. I saw through this business model when it was first getting started. It is such a great idea to sucker those poor souls into stuff like that. I wish I would have thought of it myself, but I'll never buy into it. I have recently been playing Geometry Dash and I love the fact that I paid for a game and it has absolutely zero micro transactions for anything. Not even to unlock new colors or achievements. Everything is merit based and I love it.  More people need to watch the "Freemium isn't Free" South Park episode. There is actually a really good game theory on this about how these mobile games are designed to let you play just enough so that you don't get tired of it. Of course you can pay to keep playing though. Companies that say they won't sell your information are actually trading it for something of value.

Example: school asks for generic information regarding your emails, phone number, age, and gender, and trades it to a car dealership for a car that they will later raffle off for cash. 

It happens pretty much all the time, it's a giant loophole, they aren't SELLING, they are TRADING. For a moving truck use penske.  Plan the whole thing and before you plug in your credit card, close the browser out.  They will call you the next day and reduce your price by alot.  I got $900 off my last move My brother in law was a brand manager for some breakfast bar that had chocolate chips in it.  They increased the chips by 50% for like a month and spent shitloads of add money behind it. Like 8x their typical budget. Then abruptly stopped. The consumer's awareness and belief in more chips outlasted the cost of actually using more chips. It was very profitable. He got promoted. So sleazy and dishonest. Pay attention people!  Buy cheap HDMI cables - they are just as good as the expensive ones. Years ago I saw a sale on 6-foot HDMI cables on Amazon: 25 cents each.  I bought six- the shipping cost me more than the cables.  Worth it, though- they work just fine. Well, to a point. There is a difference between a fifty cent cable and a five dollar cable. There is no difference between a five dollar cable and a five hundred dollar cable. Depends what you plan on doing with said cable. Plugging it in things, obviously That makes more sense than what I've been doing. This HDMI cable actually makes a horrible laundry line.  Most laundry lines are longer than 5 feet. Look at Mr. Fancypant over here. Fancypant? A single pant?! This may explain the five foot laundry line. I know right? 

"Ooo look at me. I'm just dripping disposable income. Look at my fancy 5 foot laundry line and my nice shoes and fancy hats."

I don't know much about wealthy people so I just assume it's all accessories with you people.  Well, the really shit ones will break, and they're sometimes a bit faulty, but there really isn't any difference between a 10 pound HDMI cable and a 500 pound one. If you are a female and want a nice belt for a better price, go to the men's section. They have better quality belts for a cheaper price. This really applies to a lot of mens' basic clothing like lounge wear. As in, the stuff you lay around the house in and sleep in. Sweat pants and tshirts, socks even. They often come in packs and sooo much cheaper than the stuff with bright print on it in the women's section. If you like to look cute while you're vegging out at home or cleaning house more power to ya but I'm more into comfort and thriftiness.  Baby wipes and make up remover have the same effect as far as removing make up. Don't spend $6 on a pack of 20 make up remover wipes. Spend $6 on a pack of 100 baby wipes instead.  I use Pond's Cold Cream. I've had the same $4 tub for like 6 months now. I only need to spread a thin layer and wipe with a warm rag, it comes off so easily. Both of these can also be used to clog an enemy's toilet.  I can usually clog an enemies toilet on my own, thank you very much.  Not sure if this answers the question but...Used to work for coldstone creamery. We've got stupid size names, yeah okay. We also got major criticism for having a milkshake that was over 2,000 calories for the "gotta have it" size (or the large size).

Evidently, corporates response to this criticism was to get rid of the "gotta have it" size cup and introduce a cup smaller than the "Like it" cup we already had. So we had the new "like it" the cup that used to be the "like it" as the new medium cup and the cup that used to be the "love it" as the large cup. So basically, we changed the sizes of all of the cups but didn't change the prices to reflect the smaller size.

I felt like I was swindling people out of their money every time I made a milkshake. OTC sleep aids are the same as OTC antihistamines (diphenhydramine) just more expensive. That almost every common pre-packaged item in grocery stores will likely shrink in size at some point in the next year while the price will stay the same. This is how food and drink companies drive their profit margins without having to add more customers. Yet they never put a flash on the label saying: "New Smaller Size!!!" Seriously- pay attention to sizes vs. prices people! Companies are betting that if you buy the same items every month that you will not pay attention to the size changing.  I always look at the "per unit" price and get the one with the lowest per unit price. Also I work for a company called retail data llc and I know a ton about food prices and such. Ask me anything about it and I'll answer!  If you own a fleshlight don't buy the lube or the freshening powder from their site. The lube is extremely overpriced and the powder is 99% corn starch. Just buy corn starch and use that to freshen your fleshlight. Yes, I can confirm this works. You'll get more that last way longer for far less money. Lube tend to be expensive, but I have found that baby oil isn't that bad for your fleshlight. Yes, the material will deteriorate from the oil and its lifespan will be shortened. But if you regularly wash and clean it the deterioration will be negligible. Especially if you apply corn starch often as it absorbs all the residual oil.


Water based lube from the pharmacy, though overpriced, is still way cheaper than the lube on the fleshlight site. just buy the 55 gallon drum from amazon and be done with it. What about next week? You seem to be an expert. He heard it all from his friend who has a fleshlight. Lefty has a fleshlight? You do not need to pay for cable to watch tv. In most areas in the united states you can still use an antenna. Here is the website. Granted it may be limited but after the cost of the antenna its free and without wifi.www.antennaweb.org Judging from the number of upvotes on this comment I am GENUINELY surprised that so many people didn't know they could get local channels over the air. 

I mean, once upon a time, most people only had antennas, and Cable was what you paid for to get premium channels. That technically never changed. You still won't get Comedy Central and HBO over antenna, but just as always, you should be able to get NBC, ABC, CBS, and Fox. I didn't even understand the parent comment, until I read this. I thought they were talking about some way to get cable channels with an antenna. 

In Australia it's now called Freeview (used to be called Free-To-Air), and it's basic common knowledge. There are antenna installation companies that advertise, and I think you can get over 20 channels, though most of them are crud. 

It's so ubiquitous that many people find the idea of paying for cable TV to be entirely unreasonable.  My friend stuck a safety pin inside of the antenna/cable port and it works just fine as an antenna. When a mattress is 50% off, that's a lie. When it's 70% off, also a lie.

The $399 sale mattress is always $399 and costs the company $80. The $999 sale mattress is that price normally, and quite often sold for $799 by a hungry salesman, and it only cost the mattress company $275.

Realistically, you can take the price of a high end mattress (2k and up) and get 50% off without trying and 60% off with a good push. You can get the $1500 retail mattress for $800 with very little effort or $600 by grinding the price down. Etc. Etc.

One major mattress retailer basically owns 80% of the retail mattress industry and they change model names and small features store to store to make them hard to compare.

The only brand this doesn't tend to work for is Tempurpedic. And side advice, the two best brands from a quality standpoint, and service standpoint are Simmons and Tempurpedic.

Also, be nice to your salesperson. They will regularly work harder for you and even throw in all sorts of nice freebies to both help you and increase their commission. They work very long hours for extremely heavy handed corporations and don't take well to jerks.

Source: sold mattresses for 7 years and worked in 3 layers of upper management. I now am thankfully out of retail!

Edit: yes your local mattress store will sometimes treat you far better than the national chain, but YMMV don't get caught up in it too much. I fixed tons of bad sales the local guy made at my big chain. I'd sometimes give a nice customer a discount equivalent to how much they lost with the local guy. That you don't need 95% of the crap they sell. 99% If you're staying at a 4+ star resort always let them know if its a special occasion such as anniversary, honeymoon, or birthday. You can usually get free champagne, cake, chocolate strawberries delivered to your room. If you have less than a certain annual income (I can't remember the exact number, I think it's $50,000) the IRS will file your taxes for you for free. ~~TurboTax and~~ H&amp;R Block tries to keep this secret.

Edit: Forgot TurboTax has free options I use a chrome extension called "page monitor" that basically checks the page and looks for anything on the page that changed. 

I specifically select the price area on that page to be alerted when it changes. 

Recently I used it to get some mobile 1 synthetic motor oil on sale from walmart. The price would generally change from $26 to $24 (and I'd be alerted each time) and then it eventually went down to about $22.... and I bought it. Yeah, It is not much savings, but even $4 saved is $4 in my pocket. Plus I had a rebate offer that saved me an additional $12 on said oil. At Macy's, I had a roommate who worked there, and he said, if you tell them you found an item on the clearance rack, it is store policy to give it to you at what ever the discount is.  Worked at Macy's before. Can confirm to a certain degree.
Depends on the managers. Sometimes they are too busy and tell 'just do whatever you gotta do to make customers happy'. And sometimes they want you to bargain a bit. And sometimes they want you to 'politely say you can't be responsible for when other customers mess up everything around'.   

Many times sales associates will break a few rules though... Not given enough pay/fk to care, I presume. Facebook facial recognition. When you upload a picture and it already knows who your friends in the photo are, it creeps me out a little. One time it suggested that a picture of Thor was me, so it will always have a tender place in my heart.  Not just that. Some time ago, I had a throwaway facebook account where I would add all the foreign friends I have acquired throughout video games and chatsites. Facebook recognized my face as soon as I uploaded the FIRST picture with my face in it, and immediately banned the account. GGWP facebook tnx. Wait, you aren't allowed to have more than one Facebook? Since when? Since always.  It is in the TOS you agree to when you sign up. Facebook's "People you may know" feature. 

It's creepily accurate at finding even the most obscure acquaintances.  We use Barkeeper's friend at my work to clean the pipes. It makes them look brand new, but I'm pretty sure it's slowly eating away the pipe itself.  Barkeepers friend, not plumbers. Plumber's Sworn Enemy More like Plumber's Paycheck. Barkeeper's Friend, Plumber's Job Security. I think so too.  I use it on my steel sink and while it makes it look lovely, when I wipe out the excess water at the end, the paper towel has a gray color to it.  I'm sure I'm wearing down the steel.  But it is so shiny!!! It is an abrasive acid in powder form.  You wiped up part of your sink in that paper towel.  That said, you can use it for years and years without any real problems.  Works real good on bakeware as well.  Also the underside of pans where grease and what not has been burned on.  The only other "magic" product that I've found for the kitchen is easy off fume free oven cleaner (blue cap).  I've never cleaned the oven with it, but if you spray it on anything that is caked on/baked on, it will break it up.  I use it for bathrooms and for cleaning the cooktop, which does a better job than barkeeper's friend.  Nair.  It literally ate the warts off my legs (reason for Nairing and not shaving).  I had a wart on my leg and because I shaved over it one wart quickly turned into 100 warts and the doctor couldn't get rid of them.  I stopped shaving and was Nairing and one night I was 2/3 of the way done when I ran out of Nair.  Luckily I found an old bottle of Nair in the back of the bathroom closet and finished the job.  By the time the 10 minute wait was up, I was in extreme discomfort and after I washed away the Nair I discovered my legs were bleeding.  The next day I was flabbergasted to see what was left of the warts - they were gone, just white patches remained where the warts once were (I was tan).  Turns out the old Nair was 15 years expired and it chemically burned the warts off my legs.  Shit worked so good that I actually called Nair and told them this story, they sent me free coupons.  I also told my Dr, he wasn't too impressed. The snooze button Mine is one where you slide the screen left for snooze, and right to turn off the alarm. Slid it the wrong way and now I'm late for work. Goddammit. An angle grinder with a cut off wheel. I use to own a bed frame, weight bench and a cast iron kettle bell, I now own scraps and a new understanding of why I don't allow myself personal power.  Now buy a welder and put it back together. "There's no way this tool that's designed to cut metal will be able to cut through all this metal. May as well test it on things I like." Febreeze. When it was first put on the market as an odor remover, people weren't happy with it because it would remove odors but it was scentless itself, so their shit no longer smelled like garbage but they didn't want it to just not smell like anything. People wanted a "clean" smell. So later versions of Febreeze had scents like "lavender" and it became hugely popular, and now you can no longer find scentless Febreeze, which is a bitch.

TLDR: Febreeze worked too well and now it smells like laundry detergent. Mr clean magic erasers.
My cousin discovered that scrubbing his car down with one made it shinier than anything else he's tried. Unfortunately, he didn't realize they're actually fine sandpaper. He now has huge spots on his car with no paint on them. This was the very first product that came to mind.  It will take the paint off walls, the finish off tables, the coatings off metals...  So great for so many things, except be wary of the surface types. They're melamine foam, which is a hard plasticy substance. 

One source says it has a mohs hardness of approx. 3.5
- Won't scratch iron, nickel or steel
- May rough finish of other metals, but unlikely to actually wear them down barring *extreme* use.

Just don't use it on anything glossy, except glass or hard metals. 
Heavy use will wear down soft and thin surfaces - paint, veneer, etc. Saw a video of a dude in some Asian country using pieces of this foam on his teeth....I cringed so hard. Oh, God.  This brought back one of the memories of my grandfather I thought I'd repressed.  I distinctly remember him brushing his teeth with Comet...I can only imagine the grit against my teeth.

I am appropriately uncomfortable. Reminds me of the time I sandpapered one of my WWF trading cards. I was not a smart child. Forgive me Bret Hart. The value of that card is going to take a serious hit, man.  Damn bro, that card is the best there is, the best there was and the best there ever will be. Bleach. You always have to water it down to use it for anything.  There once was a weird stain on our linoleum floor in the kitchen and no mattee how hard I scrubbed it wouldn't go away. Poured some bleach on it and let it sit for 5 mins. That spot is now so clean that the rest of the clean floor looks dirty compared ti that spot. Worst limerick ever. There once was a stain on my floor.

I scrubbed till my arms were quite sore.

I then tried some bleach,

It worked like a peach! 

But now it's more white than before. 


*(edited a word in the last line, thanks /u/b0gg3r)* My mom and I put a dehumidifier in our bathroom. After about a week, we noted that it was still filling up, even though the bathroom was dry. We later discovered that it was dehumidifying the toilet.

EDIT: For those wondering, we determined that it was dehumidifying the toilet because we'd have to empty it about twice a day, even though it was an Iowa summer, which are really, really dry, and it was a pretty big tank. It was filling up way too fast to be natural humidity.  I imagine your piss vanishing into thin air, mid-stream. Miralax.  You will poop.  Mucho. The equivalent of solving cruise control by putting a brick on the pedal.. More like solving jammed brakes by removing the brake pads...then sticking a brick on the accelerator. Magnesium citrate too. Drink, wait an hour, and spend the next 6 hours running to *and from* the bathroom. 

edit: two words, sheesh I had ulcerative colitis when I was 18 and therefore had to get a colonoscopy. I had to drink that because I was couldn't keep the Movi-Prep down. After the surgery was over I went to this restaurant nearby and got a rootbeer. Apparently the citrate was still in my system because I shit you not, I shat straight rootbeer. I felt like I had some sort of jet propulsion. The weirdest feeling in my life. That was the most appropriate use of "I shit you not" I've ever seen. "Sex Lure" was a roach spray that contained a long range sex pheromone designed to draw all the roaches in your home to one spot so they would all be exposed to the pesticide and die. However, cockroaches have something like the second most sensitive chemical receptors after bacteriorhodopsin and it not only attracted all the cockroaches in your house, but your neighbor's houses, and your neighbor's neighbor's houses. It was taken out of stores after about 2 weeks.  I want to put some in the middle of my neighborhood and rent a steam roller and wait  Mop and Glow, cleanest floors ever but omg the danger. you may as well convert linoleum to an ice rink Growing up my grandmother used to clean the wooden stairs with Pledge. I'd take slippery linoleum to life threatening death stairs any day. My dad was dusting one day when I was really small and he sprayed pledge onto his cloth over our hardwood floor. Everyone knows small children run, so I ran past him, slipped, and got a concussion.  It was a bad experience for everyone.  Not for me. I laughed.  Don't use Mop and Glow on anything. It doesn't make them any "cleaner" than any other product, it just puts a layer of waxy film on the floor. Over time this builds up to a waxy residue that traps dirt and dulls your floor, and then the only way to clean it is a very time-consuming difficult process where you strip the finish. Stripping is very damaging to linoleum and way too much effort.

Linoleum is *not* a synthetic flooring. It's actually made from pressed solidified linseed oil impregnated onto wood pulp. Don't use any products that are designed for synthetic floors (like vinyl, laminate, tile, VCT) because it will damage it. You need to buy a special product derived from linseed oil if you ever want to finish it, but as long as you take care of it the finish will last for years.

Shiny doesn't mean clean. That's an unfortunate American standard that came about by military inspection guidelines finding their way onto government contract requirements, which were then copy-pasted by people writing proposals for local governments, universities, and big commercial buildings. I cringe every time I see a floor with a nice shiny 7-coat burnished luster with loads of dirt trapped inside the finish. As a result, cleaning product manufacturers since WWII have worked hard to associate "shiny" with "clean" because adding oils and waxes are a cheap, nontoxic way to elevate the perceived value of their product.

The floor is "clean" when you see no visible soiling, there's no odor, and you don't feel anything on bare feet. The best way to clean is to vacuum it first (follow /u/touchmyfuckingcoffee for expert posts about vacuum selection) then mop with plain warm water. I can't emphasize this enough: ***vacuum first***. A canister with a horsehair floor attachment is easiest but anything designed for hard floors is fine.

The trick is to use a clean mop. If you don't, you'll never get your floors clean. If you're using a regular rag mop, it needs to be washed every time you use it or at least spend time getting it as clean as you can, *squeeze the crap out of it*, and put it away somewhere with good air circulation. If you don't, all you're doing is spreading dirt around.

Rag mops aren't ideal because of this. Their real purpose is for spreading chemical onto the floor like a giant paint brush (i.e. commercial floor stripping) but they do a lousy job of cleaning. What you want is a mop with easily interchangeable heads so you can toss them in the laundry when you're done. Personally I use microfiber pocket mops [like this](http://www.directmopsales.com/v/vspfiles/assets/images/POCKETMOPS.jpg), but there are velcro styles and all kinds of neat toys on the market now. With pocket mops, you just need 1 pad for every 500 square ft (or 1 per 50 square m) of linoleum for each time you clean. Depending on where you are located be prepared to spend between USD $3 to $10 per pad, so if you can get them cheap buy enough for two cleanings. Wash them in hot water with your towels and don't use fabric softener or dryer sheets. If you don't have a dryer, they dry in a few hours if you hang them up.

Honestly, you don't need any special chemical to mop linoleum. This really goes for most hard floors but especially natural floors like stone, wood, and linoleum. Tap water in the US and most of Europe has enough residual chlorine to control bacteria, but if your floors are really dirty you can troubleshoot:

* For cutting through hard grease, add 2 teaspoons of Dawn or similar dishsoap to a gallon of hot water. The better at cleaning greasy dishes, the better it will do on your floor. Next time you mop use plain hot water.

* For odor problems, pet urine, etc., use a bit of oxidant to break down the residual chemicals. Your best bet is 2 tablespoons of drugstore hydrogen peroxide, but it's unstable and difficult to store. Oxyclean (or a competing brand) is basically a stable, solid peroxide and you don't need much of it, put half a scoop in a gallon of hot water.

* If you have serious allergies, the best thing to get is chlorine dioxide. You can find it at janitorial supply stores and some drugstores. Follow the label instructions but then dilute it to half that strength for linoleum so you don't wear down the finish. (i.e. use 2 ounces if the manufacturer says to use 4)

* If your floor is dirtier than the floor of a German porn set, use a proper wood soap like Murphy's Oil Soap. About 4 ounces per gallon of **hot** water and elbow grease will cut through just about anything without damaging the finish. You'll need to go behind and mop again with warm water to get the residue off, then buff dry if you want it to shine.

* When in doubt, just use a little washing soda (sodium carbonate) to raise the pH of the water. Most soils that are stubborn at neutral pH respond well to a high (alkaline) or low (acid) pH, but acid wears down the finish of linoleum. You can find washing soda at any grocery store next to the detergents. Baking soda isn't a substitute.

(edit: All of the above works for hardwood floors too, but unless you have a sealant thicker than OP's mom, you risk the wood soaking up the water and warping. For hardwood, soak your mop and squeeze the living shit out of it until it's as dry as you can, then mop and immediately follow behind with a dry mop to buff it and soak up the water. The trick is never leave behind a wood floor if it's wet. People say not to use water to mop wood but that's bullshit because every single product from Bona to Pinesol is water-based. The best thing that these otherwise crappy products do is chelate the impurities in the water and buffer the pH. Other than that they just rely on adding a waxy film to make the floor shiny and therefore appear cleaner to the customer.)

Source: put myself through college through janitorial work. Weed killer. That shit could destroy all plant life on earth if you got a big enough spray nozzle. I started using vinegar.  Works well, and I dont get nervous planting food plants around. which kind do you use? apple cider, white, other? Get the strong stuff. You should be able to find 20% vinegar at a nursery or home improvement store. It should be next to other pesticides or by organic fertilizers. White vinegar in the grocery store is usually ~5%, not strong enough to kill most weeds. Wikipedia. Want to look up what's an IPA? Ended up learning about 7 different kinds of hops, the entire beer brewing process, the history of beer sterilization, British colonization of India, Gandhi, Ben Kingsley, Schindler's List, Nazi Germany, concentration camps, the Japanese Empire, human experimentation, ninjas, martial arts, Bruce Lee, Enter the Dragon. 

And then it's 3am. FUCK.  I like how there is a semi-logical progression to your list of subjects there. Probably looked at his browser history and typed it out. I call that The Wikipedia Worm Hole. The Ghost Chili. It has melted many an asshole it's supposed to go in your mouth  If what I heard is true, the original Pyrex glassware. They had to start selling similar products to NASA because their dishes never broke so nobody was buying replacements. 

Edit: this was specifically the original formula for Pyrex glass, which the same source mentioned as being discovered by accident. The original type was much stronger than is currently made, and hasn't been widely made (in the U.S. at least) in decades. If you shattered yours, it was probably either newer or had a defect. NASA also was not the only customer they had, but rather the high profile name that was put in with the blurb that I think came out of a high school textbook. People would get much more interested over a product also used in space than one also used in chemistry labs.  Have 2 pyrex measuring glasses older than me. Have microwaved them 100+ times. I think they get stronger Can confirm. Mom has pyrex measuring glass that she's used for coffee for the last 20 years. Accidentally dropped it earlier today and it chipped the floor... You're lucky. Mine knocked the house off the foundation. They don't wear out, they just get angrier...

EDIT: Word up, yo. And one day, those glass dishes are gonna lose their temper.  
  
--------------------------------------  
  
Edit: thanks for the feedback, those who got the pun. After a few hours and almost no comments, I thought it went over everyone's head. I may reconsider selling the pyrex dish from the 50s that my Great grandfather had then...  I would, those dishes outlasted a destructive boy who destroyed a long list of other other stuff. He broke the microwave by trying to open it with a crowbar,but the Pyrex survived without a scratch.  They didn't sell to NASA. NASA used a similar material, Borosilicate glass, to coat the heat shields on some of the shuttles because of the thermal properties associated with rapid heat deviations.

Since then corning ware companies in North America have changed their recipe to use an inferior quality of glass called Soda Lime Glass which is made with less Boron , and which cannot withstand the same rapid heat changes as Borosilicate. 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Borosilicate_glass#Physical_characteristics


However Corning Ware made in the UK and most of Europe is still made with Borosilicate and is highly desirable in North America.

Edit: /u/weinerschnitzelboy pointed out that Corning and Pyrex are different and Corning still produces Borosilicate glass. I really know nothing about the companies and what they currently produce only the ingredients and manufacturing method. I should have actually referred to the product as 'bake ware' in North America to encompass most companies on a generic scale. I also remember reading something about how the hurdle for creating non stick pans was getting the Teflon to stick to the pan. That's actually true, modern Teflon pans are created by flowing into tiny rough cavities in the metal.  Imagine something like you have really slippery hands, but you can stick your hand into a hole and then make a fist to keep your arm in place.  It's more a physical fit holding you there instead of contact adhesion.
 The TI-83 
How long have they been selling that same exact product?  Decades, at exactly the same price.

[relevant smbc](http://www.smbc-comics.com/index.php?db=comics&amp;id=2582#comic) It's because they've become the standard. TI can sell their calculators at the same price because they're engrained in education and face no competition. 


Sure, there's HP (and I definitely prefer RPN), but all the textbooks and teachers recommend TI so that's what the kids buy.  Meanwhile Casio rules the rest of the world. Clearly you haven't seen the ridiculously unfair stuff my classmates can do with the NSpire. I'll just go ahead and solve this system of 4 differential equations by hand while they type it in about one minute. I have a really nice tea thermos; infuser in the cap and everything. It has a nice color, is insulated so the tea doesn't burn your hands, everything you'd want in a portable tea container. Only one problem.

If you put hot tea in it, it stays undrinkably hot for about four hours (with the lid open, longer if it's closed). I have oftentimes made tea at noon and started drinking it at 9pm.

Super late edit: it's a David's Tea thermos. No lid cup, it's clearly meant to be drank out of. The ice cube method works, but a lot of my tea needs to be steeped at really high temperatures so it's still sort of a pain. Thats why you should just transport in the thermos and pour it into a cup for drinking. Cool in a few minutes. I actually didn't know that drinking straight from the thermos is a thing people do. Most thermoses have a cap that serves as a cup. Use that!  Some thermoses (what the crap is the plural of thermos? Thermoses sounds like I'm Smagol/Gollum) are designed as essentially water bottles that keep things at temperature. They're intended to be drank out of directly.  Others are like the ones you mention with the cup lids. 

Edit: Oops, it's spelled Smagol, not Smeagle. I knew I should have Googled that one... The pesky thermoses burns our tongueses! Agree! I made tea at 8 am and put it in my thermos. Went about my day and took my first sip at 10:30 and fucking burnt my bottom lip! To the point where it blistered right away and got fat, and stung like a mother for a few days. I threw the thermos out because it hurt me you sure showed it Why not pour the tea in the lid and let it cool there? Yeah I think that's the idea. The tea is supposed to stay hot for hours and then you can pour yourself a cup whenever you want to. Thanks for pointing this out. TIL a lot of people do not understand or know how to use a thermous They're confusing it with a travel mug I think.  Stop talking common sense.  To be fair, They haven't had their morning tea. This is exactly right my kettle keeps water hot but I don't drink straight from it. I pour it into a mug first. I made tea on Monday and still can't drink it.

Arizona problems Condoms.
They're great for covering microphones when recording outdoors.  is that what your calling it these days? No, seriously. I live with a bunch of theater techies. Do **NOT** touch their non-lubricated condoms. Those are for microphones, not genitalia.  Cast Iron Pan. Take care of it and it will last several lifetimes.  Oh dear Lord... My girlfriend is obsessed with cast iron. She goes to 3-4 swap meets a week, looking for 'new' stuff. She built an "e-tank" that uses a car battery charger to strip carbon/filth off of old pans. No exaggeration, she has 100+ pieces of cast iron cookware at any given moment. 100+ pieces? Jesus... She keeps saying she is going to sell the duplicates, but I am not holding my breath.   

"This three-notch Lodge is worth $15 easy, and I got it for $5!"  

"Only if you sell it, sweetheart..." Y'all gonna be on Hoarders in a few years.  Heaviest hoard ever The Iron Hoard Led by the delicious Garnish Hellscream and the fiendish Gul'pan. It's always good to have them laying around though. In times of war or civil strife you can melt them down to cast arrow and spear heads, which the townspeople will be grateful for. Or just hit them with it.  Ever see tangled ? Windows XP SP3. It wasn't perfect, but it worked so well that it took Microsoft 7 years to get users to stop using it and buy a new version of Windows. Dawn platinum dish soap. The stuff is incredible and lasts forever. You can use a drop to clean a dish that's been caked on for days.
My bottle has lasted 2 years so far. I don't know how they make any money. They make money off people like me, who always squirt more than necessary because they forget that it's really runny.  BUBBLES  Me too... Every. Time.  Dawn is owned by P&amp;G, and P&amp;G is located where I am from. Back years ago a big tanker full of grease/oil spilled on the expressway and there were no industrial strength degreasers that would seem to work on it. The state called P&amp;G and asked for anything stronger. I shit you not, they sent out a truck full of Dawn and it cleaned right up. A few months later the same thing happened with a truck carrying pizza dough, which started to rise on the road. 25 gallons of Dawn later it was cleaned up. I've been using Dawn ever since. [Here](http://www.enquirer.com/editions/1998/07/10/loc_dough10.html). Edited for details. That's fucking fascinating. Thanks. Right? I'm always surprised they didn't try and market that across the world to sell more soap. They use it to clean up those greasy birds from oil spills, but also congealed animal fat and dough rising on the road. That's got to be marketable. Nobody outside of Cincinnati has ever heard of those stories though.

Edit: It was poorly worded on my part. I was trying to say they should have used those spills in commercials the same way they do the oil spill birds.  Dawn was used to help clean up the Exxon-Valdez spill in the 90s, also. ~~They don't typically go out of their way to advertise it (soap isn't great for the environment, especially water sources), but~~ *Edit: Thanks for the links, guys!* they've been involved in oil spill cleanup for a long time. 

Also, woohoo Cincinnati. I moved here about 18 months ago. I've been told I can claim it now, but I'll decide if I want to *after* I visit Taste of Cincy this weekend.  Uh, Dawn advertises this all the time. [Their logo is a tar-covered baby duck.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WvstwoQyVWg) I'm pretty sure I've seen Dawn commercials for cleaning birds caught in oil. Aired in Canada, not sure about the United States.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WvstwoQyVWg

I also live in a non-oil town, so they're (probably) not trying to bribe me that oil spills are chill. Sharpie permanent markers LPT: if one of your kids gets sharpie on their skin, get a dry erase marker and draw over the spot. It will actually remove dried sharpie.  Works on other surfaces, too. No ill just get a Mr. clean magic eraser. That erases the child.

Edit:  TFTG! SOLD! Nair. Learned this one the hard way. Oh man. One of the most interesting cases I've had as a nurse was a patient who decided to put Nair all around his anus and then promptly fell asleep. Had these insane burns that turned into tunneling wounds when the guy tried to remove the nair with honey, and then tried to remove the honey with vodka (don't ask me....). He had no family or close friends so he had his neighbor come to help him pack the wounds for 2 weeks while he was at home. His neighbor came to his room so we could teach him how to properly pack the wounds. The look on this guy's face.... I don't think he was told exactly what kinds of wounds he'd have to help with Damn, my neighbors won't even hold a package from UPS for me.  That neighbour is the best neighbour in the world after Flanders and Wilson from Home Improvement. Nair your dick off as well? DO NOT PUT ON KNOB AND BOLLOCKS Morphine.  Had surgery a long time ago.  Was on one of those automated machines that let's you self administer a dose every 30 min. 

It was amazing.  It was only a medical dose of course but that first shot I got in the recovery ward was like having liquid heaven injected.  I was on it for 3 days, then I was on Kapake Morphine tablets after that for 2 days

The come down however was fucking horrendous.  I now feel sympathy for people in rehab for more addictive drugs like heroin.  My body hurt all over, I was pleading for more from the doctors saying the surgery scar was still causing pain.  They had obviously heard it all before and just gave me paracetamol/codine. 

EDIT - RIP my inbox

EDIT 2 - I know morphine is then medical version heroin but all I meant by a 'medical dose' was that it was a calculated dosage given by a medical professional to relive pain, not a dose intended to allow me to 'chase the dragon' :)  However I caught sight of said dragon a few times at the start. Morphine is the single greatest thing I've ever been on in my life. I had surgery this summer and while there was a big chunk taken out of my ass afterwards, I felt great.  I can't stand the stuff.  The first time I had it, I went into the hospital with a ruptured appendix (yeah, that hurt).  I'd been sick for weeks, but it had gotten very bad.  Not knowing what to expect, when they pumped it in and I started going numb, I thought for a second or two that I was dying.  It was the ultimate relief from excruciating pain, but I found something unsettling about feeling so disconnected from my body.

To each their own, I guess. Had a similar experience, albeit on dilaudid. It felt like a very large, very strong person was slowly pushing me down and then sitting on my body, which caused me to panic, which freaked out both the nurse and my boyfriend. 

It also made me dizzy/nauseous initially. After a while I was so high I didn't care. Definitely took care of the pain, but the first ten minutes were pretty uncomfortable. Dilaudid fucks me up.  I have a birth defect in my spine.  When I get a flare-up, it hurts worse than labor.  Dilaudid is the only thing that touches the pain.  But I have to be in the most severe pain of my life, vomiting because it hurts so much, before I'll take Dilaudid.  Because I hallucinate.  And then my asshole husband (I say that in the most loving way possible) records it, and shows it to me in the morning.  I've screamed at him about Pluto, declared war on Injuns, and talked about how I was the czar of Russia and we needed to subdue the peasants.  Apparently I become genocidal on it. You have an inner dictator. Somewhat funny (in retrospect) dilaudid story. Another nurse had a guy on a PCA dilaudid pump. She changed out a 30mg syringe at the start of shift, checked the settings, I verified the settings of the pump, closed it up and let the patient go to town with the button. Patient was also given a 4mg bolus of dilaudid for breakthrough pain. In an hour and a half, the 30mg syringe was empty. Confused, I called pharmacy and confirmed the settings. It was the pump's programmed concentration that was wrong. Guy took 34 mg of dilaudid in an hour and a half. His respiratory rate was 6 breaths a minute at one point. End stage cancer patient that was still a full code. Well, we made the decision to let it ride instead of going straight for the narcan (opioid agonist). It was the first time the patient slept in days. We called the primary physician the next morning to report the administration mistake (it was late, didn't want to wake him when we had standing orders for everything we needed if things went downhill). The oncologist laughed and upped his ordered dosage. 

TL:DR gave patient 34mg of dilaudid in an hour and a half, no narcan. Took it like a boss.  I was on morphine in the hospital once, and I literally shit myself. I could barely feel the pressure and thought it was just the standard bricks-on-your-chest feeling morphine gives you. I was in for ulcerative colitis, so it wasn't very pleasant, but I really couldn't care less.

10/10 - would shit again That's interesting, it makes most people constipated. 

*edit* okay I get it, they had colitis... Ya'll can stop telling me now.  Zojirushi thermoses.  I love mine, don't get me wrong, but I need to cool my beverages to 140 F before putting them in or an hour or two later I'll burn myself by drinking them.  Twelve hours plus later they're still noticeably warm. "Yeah I'm thinking of having this soup next week, better put it in now so it has time to cool" Soup in thermoses can be kind of odd, the heat continues to cook it even though no new heat is added.  This can be used for an incredibly low energy method of cooking. Did you just invent a sous vide thermos? Zojirushi rice cookers, on the other hand, are perfect. I love my neuro fuzzy. :) As I said, don't get me wrong, I love their thermoses.  Super easy to clean too.  But yea, their rice cooker and their electric kettles are both amazing.  I have only dealt with those three types of things from them but they're solid build quality and they do what they're designed to do really well. Duct tape. Fixes anything, can use it to build everything, easy to use. And if the women don't find you handsom, they'll at least find you handy I'm a man. But I can change. If I have to. I guess.  Vicodin. I broke my leg a few years ago and was prescribed Vicodin. It didn't really relieve the pain it just made me not give a fuck about anythingincluding the pain.  10/10 would agree.



3/10 are addicted.  I've taken Vicodin a few times for severe back pain and I never felt any side effects at all.  However, it WORKS really well.  As in it knocks out the pain really well.

Do people get addicted to it because of a drug/side effect feeling or do they just get dependent on it giving relief from Chronic pain?  

 You're one of those folks who don't get the high off it, it just relieves your pain and leaves your brain alone.

Some folks...aren't so lucky...or are...depends on perspective really. Also oxycodone. Oh, and also Dilaudid, morphine, fentanyl, Demerol, codeine, heroin,  Oh dilaudid.... Google now. Those predictive cards make me wonder how many different sources are being used.  Bidets. But is there such a thing as an asshole that's too clean? :D WD40. The door to my bathroom was squeaky so I sprayed a bit on the hinges to make it swing a bit smoother. Now it's too damn smooth and if I even lightly push the door while I rush to the bathroom it slams like I'm pissed off every time I go do my business.

[EDIT: Okay okay I'll go get a damn lubricant to slam the door properly, jeez people.] I WD40ed all my doors. Now the just close on their own. We have to put shit in front of them. 

I didn't do the front gate though. That's still squeaky so I can hear motherfuckers comin.  Gotta have a good system for detecting motherfuckers comin. Netflix. So much TV, so little life.  I still fall asleep looking for something to fall asleep to on Netflix. Percocets. 

My mom had some intense oral surgery once and they told her to take her percocets and get bed rest. Well, as soon as it kicked in, she felt better than she ever had in her life. With her cheeks the size of fuckin grapefruits she went outside and weeded the garden by hand for like 4 hours straight. She didn't get out of bed at all the next day and I could hear her going "wuhhhuhhu" from the muscle ache. My grandparents first fridge. Bought in 1950's and still keeping my uncles beer cold. Never serviced. No name eyedrops! After I got high, I put them in and my eyes became whiter than when I'm normally sober. A little too suspicious for my liking That was the paranoia :) "Dude...I look *so* fucking sober right now...everyone will know something's up" I tried these eye drops called "Rhotos" a while back, they burnt so fucking bad but damn did they work good.  Aw yes, the Rohto challenge.  There are a few different strengths of those eye drops, the kind with the silver cap will make you feel like you saw God.  Burns so good. Are you guys sure you're not using bleach?  [deleted] Retirement homes. I haven't seen my grandparents in a long time... Visit them? Let's not get any crazy ideas now. Listerine mouth wash. If you keep it in your mouth for much longer than the recommended time you'll give yourself a chemical burn. No shit.  "[the results of this study therefore do not support our hypothesis that alcohol containing mouthwashes are more effective than non-alcohol containing mouthwashes. Given the problems of increased risk of oral cancers, dryness and sensitivity from using alcohol-containing mouthwashes, the results of this study prompt us to recommend that alcohol should not be used in mouthwashes.](http://www.lugreat.com/ihe/pdfs/odinaka%20group.pdf)"


Interesting study. It also details the anti-bacterial agents used in mouthwash that are effective, and includes effectiveness of different commonly used brands. If you want to know about mouthwash and bacteria, check it out. For the lazy: the best non-alcoholic mouthwash is Crest. Scope is better than Listerine and contains less alcohol. Crest is better than Scope.  It's 27% ethanol.
If you do a breathalyzer within 5 minutes, it thinks you're about to die of alcohol poisoning. Celexa,  I got prescribed it several years back for anxiety during a big change in careers and it chillaxed me to a dangerous degree. 

I was driving home from work in a snow storm after taking it for a couple of days,  and I was driving a 2001 Ford Mustang (not my best decision,  I live in a snowy state).  As I was coming to an intersection,  the light turned red so I began to stop.  My car decided it was too rebellious for brakes and steering,  which caused me to spin out of control.  I did enough spins to make me slightly dizzy and came to a stop facing oncoming traffic,  who also had rebellious cars not willing to take safety into account. I slowly inched my way out of harms reach and drove sideways to safety while the cars behind me collided... and calmly finished my commute with nothing more than a shrug. 

I don't want to block out all emotion to that extent,  but if you do, that's the anxiety medicine for you. I'll stick with breathing exercises, Hulu, and cats. 
 When I tried Celexa I stopped being anxious about everything, including punctuality and job performance. I take 40mg for my depression and anxiety. 10/10 haven't killed myself I take 30mg daily for anxiety. No emotionally dead feeling and a lot less anxiety. 7.5/10

11/10 with benzo.  My norton antivirus. It worked so well I cannot install anything anymore, man lucky me I could've gotten malware from that. My friend's Norton once blocked google. My brother had norton and it once blocked its own update because it wasnt trusted. I still havent laughed that hard at a program since.  Twitch flagged one of its own videos, due to copyrighted music.

Edit: spelling. Back in the early days of Youtube when it was a paradise for piracy the movie and television industry used to post their own videos there in order to take advantage of its growing popularity.  But they'd forget which videos they posted themselves and flag themselves as pirates.  In fact I think Youtube won money in a settlement over those antics since some of the videos were part of a major lawsuit against them. The program itself, Norton Antivirus, was corrupted. I can't open it anymore. Whenever I try to uninstall it, nothing happens. It's as if I didn't even click the Uninstall button.  Use [norton removal tool](https://support.norton.com/sp/en/us/home/current/solutions/kb20080710133834EN_EndUserProfile_en_us) for dealing with corrupted installs.  Sad how common an issue that is. Heroin. Does exactly what it is known to do. Become so hopelessly addicted that you have lesbian sex in front of a crowd that throws heroin at you like cash? 


Or you keep injecting in your one easy to get to vein that hasn't collapsed yet, until you get an infection and have to have your arm amputated? ASS TO ASS Maid Marian... I knew you'd be back.  The greatest movie that I *never* *want* *to* *see* *again*.  Extra strength Pamprin. I took it one day for cramps and couldn't lift my head, all my muscles just went limp, it was ridiculous.  That's so weird, I would take pamprin for my cramps and it never really seemed to do anything. It is just Tylenol, an antihistamine and a diuretic. I don't know how it could make someone go limp unless the antihistamine did it. But I am not a clever man. &gt; antihistamine 

These can make you super sleepy.  I can maybe see that happening. How much do you weigh? My security alarm. It triggers every time for no reason. I suspect that it's my dog fucking with me Crocs. They had trouble making money because they last for-fucking-ever. One of my Crocs once got caught in an escalator (due to my own stupidity) and shot out at the end, smudged with oil, but completely fine. That should be on a commercial  I left mine in my car once in the summer, the left shoe shrank about 2 sizes. I was rally confused at first when I tried to put them on the next day. Rally Not to be mistaken for NASCAR confused. I have a friend who just graduated high school and has the same pair he's had since the 5th grade. There's 0 tread on them but they still fit. I had the same thing happen just not for as long. Those fuckers grow with your feet. Honey.  
For real. Honey is almost magical in its properties. It doesn't spoil and won't grow bacteria. I had a veinous leg wound that would not heal and the wound care specialist suggested medical-grade honey. I laughed because it sounded like something a fucking Pharaoh would be prescribed but after months of no improvement my wound was completely healed.  
Also, it's super good on biscuits.  
Honey. [deleted] So magical you have to keep using it if you ever want to breathe out of your nose again. Rebound congestion. Use it as directed.  My sister got this from overusing it and had to be prescribed something to get off it. The Technics 1210 Turntable. You can find a pair in pretty much every Night Club over the world, but yet, the company has gone bancrupt. Why? it was simply built too well. Nobody bought new ones, simply because the players were indestructible. A lot of Technics from the 80s are still spinning in clubs these days and there is a huge aftermarket with cheap spare parts.  A nuclear bomb... 10/10 ain't shit going to be living where it detonates. Unless you're standing in a [bank vault](http://mentalfloss.com/sites/default/legacy/blogs/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/MoslerSafes.jpg). Or a fridge. Provigil. It's a prescription pill you take that just takes any form of sleepiness away. I had a night shift job, and suffer from sleep apnea, so I easily qualified for it. It worked like magic; In fact, I felt like I had never experienced what awakeness felt like until using this.

I've tried 5hour energy (extra strength) as well as energy drinks and other things that can even be dangerous, but this pill was way more effective, with no downsides (none that I could tell), no crash afterwards, and it is not addictive. I don't use it anymore though. Plex.  Plex still amazes me, it's one of those "too good to be true" things in that it's incredibly well-made freeware.  It's good enough that I bought a lifetime subscription because I assumed that by now they'd be charging for it...yet, it's still free.

You just download whatever you want, install plex, point it at whatever folders are holding your tv shows, movies, etc and it works it's magic.  It gives you a Netflix-like interface on any Roku, FireTV, Chromecast, tablet, phone, laptop, etc on the network.

It automatically does posters, descriptions, cast, year and other info.  I tried it skeptically, then within a couple months put Rokus on every TV in the house. Vaccines. Nobody knows how terrible polio, measles, smallpox, and diphtheria are, because nobody catches the diseases anymore! My grandmother had polio. She's 78 now and it still impacts her life every day. [deleted] Google. 

Seriously, with the amount of search customization and information tracking it gets your searches are *too* accurate for what you want. You will rarely ever get opposite view points or the other side of an argument, and that leads to a lot of polarization and bias.  ...reddit It works at preventing work. And sleep. And wiping one's ass. Money. I mean, is there any problem that you can't solve by throwing money at it? Cancer Give it time, man. Glass furniture. I had a glass desk from Ikea for about two years and one morning while I was sleeping it spontaneously exploded. There was no piece of it left that was larger than my thumbnail; it took days to clean up. Apparently that can happen with tempered glass - tension builds up due to temperature changes and it just shatters. Tempered glass is designed to shatter into a million tiny fragments. Annoying to clean up, but safer apparently. Much safer than having nerve damage from a large shard of glass from a regular glass table severing your leg (brother's acquaintance)! We had a low grade earthquake where I live. Glass table shattered 3 days later. Lavender-scented dog poop bags.  It's so ruined the scent of lavender for me that now every time I smell it all I can get is poop. 

Poop everywhere. Poop at relaxing day spas, poop at wedding showers, poop in the hand soap at my office. 

UNSCENTED BAGS FROM NOW ON.  Like when a company I worked for put some Pina Colada air freshener in the bathrooms. About four steps in it was like someone shit in a snow cone. Fucking home warranty. 

Bought a house that had just hit 10 years, got all the original appliances. 'The appliances are covered' they said, 'but only if you buy a home warranty'. Sure. It only lasts a year, but these things might break in that year. It's only 500 bucks. Better safe than sorry. 

Turns out, shit does break. The water heater had a problem, the fridge had a problem, none of it caught by inspection. 

I go to the warranty people, it's 75$ for someone to evaluate it. Cool, I think. Cheaper than buying new shit. 

Then everything gets denied. The most random-fuck reasons are given to me. I argue, am told that was what the inspectors said. I get the transcripts and guess what? All of their inspectors said the this should be covered. The warranty company lied to me. I throw the lies in their face and get back 'well it doesn't matter it still isn't covered'.

One of the dudes, a plumber I later had come back to help, said these companies *never* cover anything. Their reason on the water heater? Rust on the unit. He had told them the rust didn't cause the problem, and was normal. To them, *any potential problem* is reason for denial. Got a dent in the unit? Denied. Got a scratch? Denied. 

Here's the shit of it, though. This was all in my first 30 days. Like any reasonable person, I thought I could just call up and cancel and get some (maybe?) of my money back. You know what the woman tells me on the phone?

It is not *legal* to return a home warranty in the first year. We're not talking pmi, or fire insurance, or disaster shit, or whatever. This was just a warranty on things like appliances (and can apply to things like structure). 

I told the woman she worked for crooks and hung up. 

So if you're buying a house, and they want 500 / 600 bucks to 'insure' your home for a year, do what my plumber said. Save your money to do the repairs yourself. 

I'm still mad about it and it's been like three years. 

Fuck.

Edit: Fudged a word out of rage.

Edit: For those curious, company was HSA. Fuck those guys. My old roommate had that shit. The dryer broke, so they sent someone out to replace the motor. 2 days later, it stopped working again. Another technician came out, spoke no English, and started to work on it. I had some work to do in the garage anyway, so I watched him do the repair. 

Turns out the first guy never replaced the motor. We got billed for a new one, but sitting right there in the machine was a dirty, rusty motor from 1987. 

So the second technician actually did replace it, but made the mistake of leaving the old one behind. This was used as evidence to not only get a refund, but to cancel that scam with no fees or penalties.

Oh, we also called them once for an outdoor spigot that wasn't working, and they said, after a $65 bill just for the visit, that it wasn't covered with the rest of the plumbing because it was above ground.  LPT:  Whenever someone replaces a broken part for you in a car or appliance, have them give you the old one to help prevent these scams. We call this a "home warranty".

Quick edit:  Just another perspective on this.  When we bought our home the seller included a one year home warranty with the sale.  One of the ACs died that first summer and the warranty company paid out like 3k to replace it.  It was like $500 out of pocket for installation incidentals.  

I would never pay for a warranty because I think it's not worth it, but that particular experience was pretty cool. "Cheese" from the dollar store. Second this notion - found what I thought was a great deal on block Monterrey jack cheese. Figured I could shred it and use it for different meal preps. 

Opened the cheese and noticed that the cheese had like a sheen mixed or swirled into it? I shit you not, it was like an ultra fine glimmer or shimmer in the cheese. I felt so grossed out and tossed it into the bin. 

TLDR: glitter cheese - got what I paid for.  A cabin cruiser.

I was told before I bought my boat that the happiest days I would have with it would be the day I bought it and the day I sold it. I did not think this could possibly be true. 

I was wrong. All of the repair costs come from saltwater. I live on a river and we call saltwater cancer for boats. If you run it in Salt water one time it will need maintenence for the rest of it's life. We had a boat that only touched fresh water for 23 years and the only repair was an alternator. Also I used to work as a boat mechanic. When people brought in large boats the first thing we asked was salt or fresh.  yea agreed. Everyone I know here in central texas that takes care of their boats (key words there: takes care) has no problem runnin around the lake in their 1980 bass boat with the original engine. never hear about that with salt water boats. shit just eats them up.  I'd be curious to see how a trailered salt water boat would fair in comparison to a salt water boat kept in a slip at the marina. Then compare that to a salt water boat that is trailered and has an owner who runs the engine while feeding it fresh water from the hose each time it gets home. My fishing buddy here on the Gulf coast of Florida is pretty meticulous about this. We haul the boat out to the coast, put in at the channel, and spend the whole day out there. When we get back he runs the hose through the motor and hoses everything down and then leaves it in the afternoon sun to dry before garaging the boat.

Most of the repairs he's had to do were from us getting too ballsy with the weather and the boat getting beaten to shit in rough chop. The motor itself has just needed regular maintenance and it's been going for years now.  "If it flys, fucks, or floats, it's cheaper to rent" -Words of wisdom from my old boss... Good thing I rented my Spruce Goose fleshlight A  G.E. *"Made exclusively for Walmart"*  $50.00 vacuum.

I bought a used Kirby from eBay and we threw the G.E. over the balcony and killed it Office Space style. Anything that says "exclusively for Walmart" should probably be hit with a hammer. Hit with an exclusively from Walmart hammer? A very stoppable force vs very movable object. Which will crumble to dust first?  Oh no! The head flew off and smashed a rack full of walmart unbreakable dishes! I was 18 when I called a craigslist number to set up a job interview. "Wow, they set up an interview right away! I must be a good candidate", the oblivious 18 year old thinks to herself. I did the training for 3 days and in that time I found out I would be selling vacuum cleaners. I worked myself up and thought I'd be hitting the big time in the Kirby vacuum selling business. I went to my neighbors door to tell her about why she should buy this 2000 dollar vacuum cleaner. In the middle of the presentation I just start crying because I had a mental breakdown and realized I didn't want to sell 2000 dollar Vacuum cleaners. My neighbor just looked on in horror as I'm crying with all these fucking rubber vacuum pieces scattered around me. It was sad, and I'm weird.   I was 18 when they sucked me in, too. That was 1988 and the Kirbys were going for about $1900 and change, including all the carpet shampoo attachments.

Sad thing was: I ended up being pretty okay at it. Enough to feed me, my wife and my newborn daughter, at least. Too bad the higher-ups in that particular branch kept screwing me out of my pay with all their extra bullshit fees.

Fuck you, Kirby Co. Did they buy it? Did the pity angle end up working and this became your new thing? Breaking down while selling vacuum cleaners door to door. That sounds like it could be an early 90s movie. -*Idodrunkthings* Bacon flavoured popcorn. 

It basically made my entire house smell like sweaty ass. I'm not kidding it lingered for days. It tasted dreadful too.  Allow me to gift you with my recipe for *The Tastiest Popcorn Ever!^tm*

Microwaved bacon popcorn is gross and inedible.  Instead, make some bacon and save the grease. The next time you want delicious popcorn, put 3-4 tbs of the bacon grease in the bottom of a large cooking pot.  Apply medium-high heat. When the grease is all melted, add about half a cup of popcorn kernels (enough to mostly cover the bottom of the pan) and cover. Shake somewhat vigorously until the popcorn is no longer popping quickly. Immediately pour the Delicious Popcorn into another container, as it will scorch very quickly if you don't.  Depending on the saltiness of your bacon, you *may* want to add salt, but probably not. &gt; put 3-4 tbs of the bacon grease

Totally misread that as *tubs*.  I was like "damn, son.  gonna deep fry some popcorn?" I read it as lbs and wondered why anybody would have that much bacon grease on hand.  I'll keep this short and sweet. I was very thirsty one night shift and thought it would be a good idea to buy 1L of sugar free aloe water. After guzzling the entire thing I felt quite refreshed. I downed a pita and my lunch was complete. Fast forward an hour later and I started to feeling a rumbling in my stomach and the urge to pass gas. I decided to hold my fart in at the time and visit the closest washroom. At that very moment I emptied my entire stomach contents and more into the toilette in the most violent ass explosion of my life. For the remaining 4 hours of my shift everything coming out of my ass was liquid. I learned that the aloe water was a very close cousin of the sugar free gummy bears. 10/10 will not buy sugar free aloe water again. Fun fact: Aloe vera juice is sold in the digestive medication section of most stores. Warning:  aloe is a mild laxative.  So is coconut water, so don't guzzle that either.  We were really confused about why my daughter kept having liquid s hits a while back.  then I realized she was drinking a ton of coconut water.  She loves the stuff, but now she only gets a little.  When I was around 5, I overheard my moms conversation with her friends, and some one said coconut water "will make you shit your brains out." I didn't understand that it was an expression at the time, and never touched coconut my entire childhood because I thought my brains would come out my ass and I would die...  Food from that shady ass chinese food cart next to my building... something i've said 4 or 5 times already :( sigh Mate, the rule with takeaway food is the dodgier the joint looks, the better the food. 

Hell my local Indian joint has  perpetual low lying smoke from all the curries. And the Chinese joint has burnt down 3 times. 

All does super good take away food. 

Only applies to ethnic food though. Your local Chippo best be squeaky clean though. 

Edit: accidentally a word. 

2nd edit: A Chippo is a fish and chips joint. &gt; the dodgier the joint looks, the better the food.

So true, at least in most places.  I live in Boston, so restaurant overhead is high.  If a place looks like an asshole and is still around, they're doing something right.  



&gt; Only applies to ethnic food though

Even more true.  Especially if they're meals are super cheap.  There's some asian/viet places that sell rice or noodle plates or bahn mi sandwiches for $2.99-$5.50.  You can't survive in a competitive restaurant market with such low prices and high rent unless you are doing it right
 Sea-Monkeys.  They're NOT tiny humanoids, and their construction skills leave much to be desired. Tyrannizing them is not very rewarding. All they did in response to my oppressive taxation and restrictive curfews was die and turn the water brown A bicycle from Walmart Cheap bikes are really expensive.  What's the cheapest bike that is worth it, I wonder? A used bike that was expensive when it was new. Good bikes last for fucking ever if you take care of them. My bike was built thirty years ago, and it's ten times better than the piece of shit I used to ride, a brand new $300 folding bike. If you buy a folding bike, you should assume that it's equal quality to a non-folder that costs half that.  So you'll get the quality of a $150 bike. I honestly wouldn't trust a folder that cost less than $600.

Actually I wouldn't trust a folder that wasn't made by a major company. An inkjet printer.

I've probably bought more than a dozen of them over the years and while they produce outstanding color out of the box, unless you're printing full color on a regular basis (like, every day) then you're going to get clogs and failures. And don't even get my started on the whole "you're out of yellow ink, so you can't scan anything now" with the all-in-ones.

About two years ago I bought a Brother MFC-9340CDW laser printer for my mother; a few months later I bought the same printer for myself. No more clogged ink, duplex printing that doesn't saturate the paper, consistent print quality, wider variety of paper to choose from, and *overall* cheaper than an inkjet. I'm never going back.

EDIT: Thanks for the gold, mysterious stranger! I just found a brother mfc at the thrift store for $10. Said, "replace drum soon" when I powered it on in store.

Ok.

Bought it, brought it home. Cleaned it up. Sent a test page. Worked fine, printed well. Cool.

Sent multiple pages. Jammed like a Grateful Dead reunion. Wtf? I googled the issue and found that there is a small plastic hammer like thing on the left hand side that strikes down on a cork pad to lift up the paper to the rollers, and over time the cork breaks down and gets sticky. 15 minutes later that pad is covered by a nice new shiny piece of scotch tape, and the printer works perfectly.

I then went to Amazon and spent $34 on a new drum and two additional toner cartridges. $45 in and now I've got the next 7000 pages I'll print covered. Great buy all around. &gt;I googled the issue and found that there is a small plastic hammer like thing on the left hand side that strikes down on a cork pad to lift up the paper to the rollers, and over time the cork breaks down and gets sticky. 15 minutes later that pad is covered by a nice new shiny piece of scotch tape, and the printer works perfectly.

FYI, that issue isn't unique to Brother printers. You'll find the same thing with HP lasers, Xerox Phasers, and a bunch of others. I bought a roll of cork tape and cut it to whatever size I need for the repair. How to learn Buddha's Palm booklet But that actually turned out to be totally legit, didn't it? Exactly. So why would you need to buy it again? Even if it's fate,and he'll let you have it for $10? Or ice cream. YOU NEVER SEEN FREE ICE CREAM BEFORE?? HHAAAAAAAAAAHAHAHHA But how else are you going to defeat the bullies?  I was not expecting a kung fu hustle reference. There should be more of these! That bloody Loot Crate shit. I only bought its once, when I thought the stuff was still alright. But it really pisses me off now watching YouTubers continually opening crates and then acting like they're so glad that they got a fucking fridge magnet. Look up Ashens on YouTube. He buys the loot crate for the sole reason of tearing it a new one each month.

FUCKING INFLATABLE FUCKING CROWN

EDIT: Since I'm captain of the Ashens karma boat, I recommend everyone go watch his film too! The shirts are pretty cool (I loved the Link shirt made of words from Zelda games), but that doesn't really balance the FUCKING INFLATABLE FUCKING CROWN.  Clothes from groupon. Almost anything from Groupon, my last few experiences have been pretty bad. When Groupon was new you could get some great deals but now it is spa, crap Chinese product, shitty restaurant, rinse-and-repeat. The last restaurant (and only) one we booked through Groupon was one called Shaka Zulu in London. Pretty well, known and well liked from what I hear.
But they had a sectioned off an area for people with Groupon vouchers and dear god did they not give a shit about us. The service and food was abysmal.

On a lighter note, I have booked several afternoon teas from there and have always been impressed. Very British, I know. Last year I found a pretty good Groupon deal - 15 bucks for a couple of hours on a fishing boat (original price on the company's site was 40ish). Went with a few friends, caught a couple of fish, tipped the guys on the boat, and had an overall great day. I bought my first Sam's Club membership from Groupon.  It was the normal price but you got a $20 gift card and some coupons for a free box of cookies and a rotisserie chicken.  Pretty sweet deal IMO.  That sounds pleasantly medieval. "Thank you for your patronage.. To show our gratitude, here are some pastries and chickens!" I bought like 500 ladybugs on a website. Bad idea. They are beautiful if you find like 4 or 5, but 500? It gets messy real quickly. That doesn't sound like a great idea in the first place. May I ask why you did it? Usually people buy that many of them to release them in an orchard or a big garden so they can use less pesticide. In the case of OP... drunk online shopping I guess? Probably. A few summers ago Denmark was swarmed with ladybugs where stuff outside in the sun had layers and layers of ladybugs. That was fun but extremely annoying if they decided to visit the room with the open window. I like ladybugs :( 500 was a bit much though Does any other country call them 'ladybirds' or is it just Ireland :S

EDIT 1: ~~140~~  ~~190~~ 240 comments on ladybirds. Jesus. I get it! people call it different shit! **STAAAHHPPP**


2 -......The lady - bird/bug/cow/hen/maiden/god/anthony/beetle/mary/seven dotted sun -  hates you all! (_) What the fuck Ireland In Dublin we keep dolphins in barns. The smell.... AAAAARGHHLLS... We had a huge population boom of those "imposter" Japanese Beatle lady bugs one year. For a whole year, every time we vacuumed, the whole house smelled like them, it was disgusting. The infestation in the area was so bad that every windowsill in the houses of everyone I knew had literally hundreds of their dead bodies just laying in a gigantic pile. You would suck them up and two weeks later the pile is back. I still have no clue how this ended up happening. It was about 11 ish years ago in NW Ohio. Mid-Ohio here. They're still freaking everywhere, though not to that extent. We always called them wheat beetles. Those fuckers bite. Fun fact, when they get scared they *bleed.* That smell is their fucking *blood!* That's not a fun fact. That's horrifying. You lied to me.

*You lied to us all.* Will no-one think of the CHILDREN? Is that what it is?

I thought the yellow stinky stuff was some kind of defense mechanism goo.  It IS a defense mechanism and it IS their blood. It's not actual blood though, but it's meant to look like blood so that predators think they're dead. If I were a predator, I'd think some dead prey would be a nice snack. Unless it's to make me think they died of some illness, then it's tainted. We had a buddy named Dave who once brought over some Klondike Bars for a game night, and left the remainder in the fridge. When he came back a week later, he was horrified and livid that his Klondike Bars, which were left in the fridge of three bachelors, had been eaten without his permission. He made such a stink about it, that us three guys living there, as a prank, filled the freezer to the brim with Klondike bars.

We ate them and ate them, but the stock never depleted. Some jackass would "keep the joke going" by buying enough Klondike Bars to fill it back to full. And when you're young and a cheapskate, you'll eat a Klondike Bar before going to find real food.

Don't get me wrong, ice cream and chocolate are great, but man. I could go my whole life without eating another Klondike Bar, and that was already 15 years ago.

Edit: Fuckin' Dave, man.

Edit 2: I'm telling Dave his neurotic bullshit from 2002 got me reddit gold.

Edit 3: I remembered another Dave story, posted it [somewhere down in the thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/351azq/what_is_something_that_you_are_never_fucking/cr0hesm). That guy, man.

Edit 4: Texted Dave to tell him I was milking his bullshittery for sweet karma, he replies "Dare I ask? Perhaps the one about daving?" no, I posted that one [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/351azq/what_is_something_that_you_are_never_fucking/cr0hesm).

Edit 5: Someone made /r/fuckindave. Who knows if it'll live, but I shared another story there anyways. I always thought that guest leftovers in your fridge should be treated like a tip. It's not compulsory but whether it's beer or some food, it's like the guest's way of paying you back just a little for having them in your house and dealing with the cleanup. There's been plenty of times when I've left some unopened chip packets or 2-3 beers in the fridge and gone 'eh, let the host enjoy them'.

That's why I can't help but think someone is a cheapskate when they go and collect their last two beers from the fridge at the end of a party to go home. If it's a 6 pack or more by all means go and grab it but otherwise you're just being petty.

TL/DR if you leave the scene of a gathering/party with food or beverages left over, they're fair game for the occupants. Oh, we understand. It's Dave who has some neurotic misunderstanding of the arrangement. Hence the overboard scenario that ensued. A fucking sleep number mattress. Piece of shit is like sleeping on an air mattress and after a little while the sides lose their integrity so the only comfortable spot becomes broken down. Forked out a lot of cash for that stupid mattress, the only one who seemed to like it was the cat.

Edit: Thank you for gold kind stranger &lt;3 Memory foam mattresses on amazon are a good deal if/when you need a new one. About 350 for some random brand queen mattress that is the most comfortable thing I've ever been on Got one at Costco. $500 for a Queen size mattress - and it has a 3 inch gel top that makes it cool as a cucumber. It is seriously the best $500 I've spent. I planned to spend a lot more on a regular mattress, but a friend said get the Costco one. It's the Comfort Grande if anyone is looking. Anything from Finish Line.

A couple of years ago, I needed a new pair of shoes. Luckily, I had a Finish Line gift card (I had never shopped there before, but I'd save money with the gift card), so I walk in and buy a pair of shoes. The cashier asks if I would like coupons sent to me in the mail. I figured, sure, why not? So I wrote down my address and everything. Got my shoes. Everything's cool.

Fast forward to 7 months later, I have a $60 charge on my bank account from SPORTS*ILLIST (something like that, it resembled Sports Illustrated) so, being confused, I call Sports Illustrated and tell them I was charged for subscribing even though I could give a shit less about sports. The man basically tells me "Sorry about that, I don't know how that could happen. The charges should be reversed within about 3 days." I figured, alright good, this shit's finally over. 

Fast forward 2 weeks later, I realize that the charge has NOT been reversed whatsoever. I decide that I'm going to call back again after work and talk to them about it yet again. So, after work, I check my bank account one last time to see if it was reversed. Not only was it not reversed, but I had ANOTHER charge that said something like SPRTS*ILLIKIDS (Sports Illustrated Kids) for another $60. So basically after he told me the charges would be reversed after 3 days, they WERENT AFTER 2 WEEKS, and then they had the balls to charge me yet again. This time I was pissed and called immediately. 

The tone in the lady's voice seemed like she had been dealing with this all day or something. She sighed, and said "Have you purchased anything from Finish Line recently?" and I had to think about it.. Then it hit me that I did about 7 months ago, and I said "Yeah.. Why?" and she said "Because this has been a problem with everyone who purchased from Finish Line. I'll have the charges reversed, this time I really will." and after the phone call, I called the bank to tell them about the whole thing.

Everything was refunded back to me in the end, but after dealing with all of that shit, I'm never buying from Finish Line again. Who the fuck do you think you are just subscribing everyone to Sports Illustrated unwillingly. I don't even give a shit about sports, I just wanted to buy a simple pair of shoes and that's it.

TL;DR Finish Line signed me up for Sports Illustrated without my permission, I just wanted to buy a pair of shoes. Tried reversing the charges, but instead they subscribed me twice, had to call the bank to actually fix it. DON'T SHOP AT FINISH LINE. I wish these companies had to pay you high interest on the time your money was tied up with them. I've dealt with a lot of fuck ups like this in the past. A Lenovo Laptop from India.  I bought a Y500 from them, and it was the worst experience ever. 

I know most people think the company is excellent, but their after sales service is SIMPLY AWFUL. Two days after delivery, I found that the touchpad wouldn't work properly. After repeatedly emailing them, asking for repair centers, a repair tech, or any number of other things, I was told that I had applied for a replacement too late, since I had bypassed the one week replacement limit. I asked them *again* about repairing the laptop, and they sent over a technician who knew less than I did about laptops. He left the house having spoiled the screen by scratching it with a screwdriver and twisting the fan blade so that the laptop wouldn't start anymore. 

With infinite patience, I called the repair center and asked for a repair tech to fix the things the previous guy had done wrong. They made excuses for days and days, doing absolutely nothing. If you think Comcast is bad, this was far far worse. I was misquoted saying "The issue has been fixed" and they closed the case number, telling me I would have to go through the entire process again. I was given a Lenovo Official Helpcenter number (This is when I learnt that the guys I was speaking to were simply a small repair shop that Lenovo had contracted all their Bombay customers to). After waiting on the Lenovo Helpline for fifteen minutes, listening to shitty elevator music, I was told that the Helpcenter was inactive, and that I should call up another number. 

**THE VERY SAME FUCKING NUMBER THAT BELONGED TO THE REPAIR SHOP.**

I. Fucking. Lost it. 

The worst part is, in India, it's not possible to sue a company and expect speedy resolution. All of this was happening a few weeks before my exams, and I had a Comp Sci project due for submission. In the end, I had to give up this new, almost never used, laptop to a repair shop that I actually trusted. Their service was far far better than anything Lenovo had ever offered my so far, even if it was paid. 

I ended up using my old HP DV6000 for my exams. I managed to submit the project on time, but seriously, fuck Lenovo. 

TL:DR: Fuck Lenovo for getting me stuck in a feedback loop. This is why Australia has fantastic consumer protection laws. 

There isn't even a time limit! Oh, your limited warranty offers 1 year protection? FUCK YOU! Reasonable life of the product motherfucker! 

I just got my 4 year old macbook pro replaced under warranty for a battery fault (heck yes) Possibly explains why we pay so much for shit though.  That, and being a remote island.

I shipped things to Australia from the USA. It is expensive. I apologized to the buyer, but he seemed happy to pay $80 for shipping a package not big enough to hold a shoe. Yes, it costs a fortune to send our violence free Steam games to you guys! KY Warming lube.   Never again.   Might as well have used Tobasco. Oh man, we tried this last year. My SO was running around screaming about her fiery pussy. Good times. Those pink, frosted animal crackers.

Good as all hell, but I ate wayyyy too many when I was younger and I still get sick even to this day when I think about it. The Keebler pink and white with sprinkles? I know whatcha mean I just ate like half a bag with my daughter. The iced ones are the tits. The frosted ones leave too much film in my mouth to enjoy I always thought frosted was the U.S. version of iced. There's a difference?  You have the basic animal cookies, then they have the "iced" version with a pink glaze on top. Then you have the "frosted" version which is completely covered over the cookIe with sprinkles. To me, the frosted ones are the gross ones I swear to god I've never experienced anything more confusing than listening to an American and a Brit trying to talk about baked goods.

EDIT: Blimey! Gold for my biscuit comment? Thank you! Well you got your frosted animal biscuits and then you got your biscuits and gravy. The Canadians put gravy on their chips sometimes. 

But the real confusion comes in things with wheels. "Take that buggy to the lorry and toss it in the boot" sounds like nonsense. Do lorries even have boots? 

I'm not British, how obvious is it? As a southerner (United States) all I read was biscuits and gravy and now I'm hungry and excited. I feel like everyone has that one food that they ruined for themselves as a child. 

For me, it was a Mexican candy called Lucas. I ate it once when I was extremely sick and haven't been able to stomach it since. Which is sad because I remember loving it for a couple hours, at least until I threw it all up. A frozen gluten free pizza. 3quid for a large nacho with a pinch of cheese on it. What a load of balls!  (only relevant if youre in the UK) i don't eat gluten-free, but i work at pizza express and i've had 2 or 3 coeliacs order a GF pizza, and then ask if they could purchase our GF pizza base in bulk to take home with them from the restaurant because they liked it so much.  maybe give that a shot? the manager of my branch is okay with it, and if you're in london you can come by :) Let me tell you, having IBD, half of my diet tastes like shit. I will never go with my current ISP fucking ever again if I have an option. The amount of bullshit I've had to deal with is just insane. 

First, they bought our previous ISP. I call to cancel the phone line we got for free along with a free router. New ISP tried to charge for it, but say they'll of course remove it. Get confirmation letter. Get another one. In the end, I got one letter every day for over three weeks confirming the exact same thing. *Still* shows up on my bill. 


Get charged for TV. It's included in my rent, I call them and they said sure, we'll of course remove it. It shows up on next bill. I call again, they claim the bill was printed before my call, just pay less than what it says on the bill. Next month, it's *still* there. They claim the exact same thing, printed before I called. I call the rep on his bullshit, all he does is cough and ask if there is anything else I need help with. I mildly lose my shit at this point, but I finally get rid of the extra charge on the next bill. 


This was all in the span of three months. Never again, if I have the option. Previous ISP worked flawlessly for over a year. What infuriates me the most is that this is most likely their modus operandi, counting on people not reading too closely what they're getting charged for. Granted, they are reasonably priced at 100mb/s for an equivalent of $15 a month, but based on their customer service and general inability to do even the simplest of tasks without several weeks of issues, I'll go with another one next time.

edit: alright, some sloppy conversion on my part, it's closer to $24/mo, still reasonable in my eyes. 3rd party extended warranty. I bought our first "family" car a few months after getting married. A 5 year old dodge magnum with 50k on the odometer. They kinda just threw the warranty in and I didn't realize it until I was signing papers and got to the extended warranty page. Asked what the fuck this was, the salesman ended up getting me to go for it. "It's only $1200, pretty cheap peace of mind, right?" Right. I'm a family man now, hate to have any pesky repairs get in my way. I never used it. Needed tie rods one time, but they were considered a wear item, so it was out of pocket. Instead of the extended warranty, do your research, buy cars that don't have over complicated parts that break down, or require expensive services. I don't buy anything with a timing belt anymore, only chains. Do your maintenance the way your manual says, and consider using the severe schedule. Join a forum for your particular car. If the thing-a-ma-jig shakes when you turn on the doo-hickey, you can bet someone else's thing-a-ma-jig had shaken before, so look it up! Most of all, this is what you keep an emergency fund for! If your maintaining your vehicle properly, things shouldn't break, but if they do, have some money tucked away for emergency repairs.  Any device with the word "Belkin" on it. Avoid anything modern that has "Linksys" on it as well. Cisco sold Linksys to Belkin. in their defense, i bought a laptop backpack from them for college that not only lasted me through my years there, but is still in great condition after 8 years. Best backpack I've ever had. but yeah, I know which belkin products you really mean best quality backpack by far is jansport though.  thats one thing ill never buy again because that fucker will not break, and if it does they replace it for free.  Nice, they should probably stick to backpacks. Making networking devices is clearly not a core competency.  Belkin Routers are so terrible. Literally sitting there angry to the point of tears trying to get those things to stop going out every half an hour, but it just keeps happening. Any steam game before it goes on sale  Condoms.  I'm married, and had a vasectomy.  I was in the same boat with two kids already. Evidently the US military gives shitty vasectomys. After the third kid my wife got fixed. Cable television. Cord cutter for life.

Edit: Great responses here and congrats to everyone who also made the switch! As for you sports fans, I can't really help you too much on this front (as far as HD streams go) as I'm not a sports fan at all.  What I can tell you is that you can find streams out there for your sports to watch live or recorded games easily enough after broadcast (There's quite a few XBMC/Kodi addons for sports streams out there). My setup for years has been a custom built HTPC running XBMC/Kodi paired with an HD dual tuner card plugged into an OTA HD antenna.  The system handles everything for me as far as entertainment goes (Completely automated fetching of HD movies, HD TV shows, console and handheld emulation (Atari 2600-PS2), and music).  The only costs that I incur each month is the $39.99 I pay to Comcast for my 120Mbit internet and an $8/month service fee I pay to a Usenet provider. I go to the parents house and they get frustrated when I don't want to watch TV. The commercials drive me up the damn wall! I can't even watch TV any more.  I get so frustrated every time I get up and reach for the pause button.

And the commercials are unbearably long.  These days, I find myself streaming things that I could watch on TV if I wanted.  I don't have Comcast's "add on" (wtf) HD service so the improved video quality, pause button, and lack of commercials with streaming make it a much better way to go.  I tried to watch Comcast's 'ON Demand" service when I missed a show, but they force you to watch the commercials.  Again, wtf, Comcast? I remember once a few years ago, a new episode of the Walking Dead had come out.  A friend asked me if I had watched it, and I said "No, I recorded it, but I'm going to wait for it on Netflix because I don't feel like fast-forwarding through the commercials".

It suddenly hit me that they had made the commercials so frequent (and putting clips of the show in the middle) that it was too onerous to fast-forward through the commercials.  Wow.  Talk about a first world problem.


 Walking Dead is a perfect example.  The suspense and pacing is absolutely destroyed when you watch it as AMC intended, with the commercial breaks.  It's a mandatory "stream or pirate" show. A cheap vacuum. I have two dogs, and vacuumed with it the day before I bought a new one. Vacuumed with the new one (Shark Rotator Professional, for those wondering) and literally filled 2 trash bags with missed pet hair, having just vacuumed the day before.  As fun as they are, those cheap remote control helicopters are probably the most frustrating things to try to control. I think I've owned three and they've all broken within one week of buying.

*Edit - For everyone asking, I think I bought the Syma S107G off Amazon. Sucked ass, man. Gotta love the waning labels though http://i.imgur.com/HyBSQ.jpg But what will I do if I can't be fly? It's all I got, man... :( Bro, you don't want to create the human body.

That's why we use protection.  &gt;otherwise it will create the human body or blame damage.   

Ultron?  That looks familiar.

"This plate is not for food. Do not place food on this plate. Food items from this plate are dangerous for consumption."

###WHAT THE FUCK AM I BUYING A PLATE FOR, TO MURDER PEOPLE WITH OR TO, I DON'T KNOW, EAT?!? it's because they contain lead in the painted surface It could be a decorative plate which is painted which non-food-grade paint in which case eating off of it will literally poison you. My brother had one once. Never used it. Decided to take it to a farm we go to for a holiday every year. Dad was the first to use it. Mum wanted a go. She started flying it. It went up, down, she was doing pretty well. It went up again, and again, up over the lake, over the native forest, until it was a speck in the clouds. Never to be seen again. The wind wanted a turn. My brother never go to fly the thing. Every year when we go to that farm, we go for a horse ride into that forest, we always joke about how we must keep an eye out for it.  One time I was playing with this gigantic beach ball in the ocean and I got a little too deep and couldn't grasp it any more.  In a last ditch effort I raised both of my hands and attempted to clamp onto the ball, but the bottom was slick and that just propelled it further into the sea.  




I trudged back to shore, tears in my eyes as I watched the ball get smaller and smaller until it disappeared completely.  My brother and his friend Michael stood close by, the entire time laughing and mocking my attempt to save the ball. "Wilson, I'm sorry!" I had one, used it once, and it broke in the box somehow. I'm not really sure how that happened, but it did. I don't doubt it, those things are notoriously flimsy. Like, you land it slightly wrong and all of a sudden the whole tail end comes flying at you like you're in the House of Flying Daggers or something. It was fine when I landed it and put it up. But the next time I busted it out, ready to rock and roll, one of the blades was broken in half. 12 year old me was severely disappointed. Did you ever get one stuck in a ceiling fan? I think I fled faster than a Chansey at that moment. Which one? The syma 107 is pretty easy to maneuver  3rd party controllers. They only ever last all of a week or two before something goes wrong. Madcatz can die in hellfire Beats By Dr Dre...Why didn't I listen to what everyone telling me! Ben and Jerry's changed the heath bars that they use to some tasteless, disgusting hippy crap about a year ago. I get that they're all about conservation and all but they screwed up my absolute favorite, go-to ice cream of all time. I was in Vermont when they invented heath bar crunch about 25 or 30 years ago and they were giving it out as samples. I fell in love right then and there but they have wronged and cut me deep. Never again unless I hear they go back to the old heath bars Off-brand saran-wrap/cling film. Tears if you look at it wrong; won't stick to itself on wrap around. Bullshit in a box. "As seen on tv" Pocket hoses. They are terribly flimsy and break when left out in the sun for even a few minutes. I've had 2 break like that.  Wooden tiki torches. They get fucked after one season outside in the elements, and half of them come crooked and crack when you put them in the ground. I invested in some nice metal and glass ones Look at Mr Rockefeller here with his tiki torches for his tiki friends to frolick on his tiki garden.  How much did you invest? Because the wooden ones are like $1 per, so if you spent more than $10-$15 on metal ones, you aren't really saving any money.  Exactly.  They are basically disposable torches, I don't think they are supposed to last more than a season.  God forsaken Haribo Sugar Free Gummy Bears What's the deal with these things? I have never experienced them myself. The Amazon reviews "*My guts are making a noise like a cross between a Skrillex track and a herd of cattle being boiled alive.*" - RIP cloudbuster Don't do it, you'll shit your pants. 

But not just any shit, napalm shit.  It's the sorbitol. Wreaks havoc. No, I'm pretty sure it's maltitol not sorbitol. The former is basically in every other kind of "soft" "sugar-free" candy...its demonic properties are very well-known and documented around /r/keto. IIRC, they use malitol as a sweetener in place of sugar. It's fine if you only eat a few, but if you eat a handful, malitol's laxative effect becomes rather suddenly apparent. Try for yourself Thanks Satan. Just watch this https://youtu.be/sMjgaa5j_LE Ah yes, the good old sugar free gummy bears. Never thought I would be able to give birth to the turd manifestation of satan in a million years, until I've had them. Needless to say, I stay clear away from them. [deleted] One-ply toilet paper.


I bought a big package on accident once and I will never do that again.  My finger popped through that whispy garbage the first time I used it and I eventually was using ridiculously-thick wads of paper to keep myself safe.  Toilet paper is one of those products where it is always best to pay more for the good stuff. Last time I got a piece of ass is when my finger bust through the toilet paper I need to stop wiping closed fist Unless that's what you're into, I guess. I feel like you and I wouldn't get along very well.... *rolls up sleeves* An engagement ring This is either really happy or really sad Size 46 and above pants. Not a product quality thing, just a quality of life thing.  Went from size 54 Levi's 560's to size 38 501's in less than a year.  And added 16 holes to my belt.  I don't now how I managed to let myself get that big, but I'm doing my best to never go back. Girly shit! 
Give me man razors, man deodorant, man shower gel, man everything. Half the price, lasts way longer than crappy girl products. 

Edit:apparently I'm Hitler because I said this, relax. If you want to use girly products, go ahead. If you want to use men's products, go ahead. I personally find men's antiperspirant (rexona) to be my choice of deodorant because I'm very active and work outside. Every brand of men's razors have lasted longer than my women's. My men's workboots last amazingly better and are sturdier than any women's work boots I have had in the past. That's my personal experience.   Though man conditioner is terrible NEW FROM AX! ALL IN ONE SHAMPOO-CONDITIONER-BODY WASH-FOOT SCRUB-TOOTHPASTE-TOILET BOWL CLEANER or SHANDITICRUBTOOTHBOWLWASH! Now everything you hold dear will smell like highschooler. And the fucking 2-in-1 shampoo conditioner has to be the worst thing ever. It'll make your hair nice and foofy, but it's also slowly fucking killing your hair. How is it killing my hair? D: Yeah, they are idiots. Hair is already dead. I don't find men's tampons work as well. I have a friend that works for a cosmetics company and that's what she does!  Same exact product inside the bottles (except for fragrance items) just different colored packaging for men and it costs less.  Biggest scam on women ever and nobody knows!   women know I have to disagree. Women's shampoo, conditioner and body soap is sooo much better. Who says I don't want to smell like lilacs or jasmine? The Dyson Ball Vacuum.  Man is that thing named wrong. I couldn't walk for three days after using. I was about to say "mine works great and is so easy to push" ... and then I caught on... Hulu subscription, I can't stand the paying for a service and still have to watch through commercials.  Cigarettes, full year clean let's go A DVD rewinder. Fucking useless. I remember when Blockbuster was first introducing DVDs and my dad got a notice that he failed to rewind his disc before returning it to the store. 

"Some people are just dumb," he said "but don't threaten me with a fine because of your own stupidity." Yeah, I usually never watch DVDs more than once anyways. True Story.  I got a new job working at Radio Shack in a dinky Texas town outside of Fort Worth about 8 years ago, and as a new guy,  didn't think anyone was that dumb. DVD's wasn't a new technology at all at this point. I answered a call one day, "Thanks for calling Radio Shack, this is f0ru0l0rd, how can I help you?"  "Y'all have any DVD rewinders?" I asked him if he was talking about the scratch removal system ( http://www.dvdrewinder.com/) because it actually exists.  He said no,  his boss was finished watching his movie and needed to rewind it before returning it. I wasn't sure I could explain it to this guy,  so I told him to try Best Buy,  and good luck.

I put the thought out of my mind, and went on. Coming back from lunch,  I was sitting in the back office, when the loudest truck I'd heard came driving up.  When the door opened,  it was like a movie.  Tex was tall,  wore a bucket,  spurs on boots, and the thick accent.  "I'm looking for f0ru0l0rd." Oh no... No. No. Noo.  I waved at my co-workers, "I'm not here" I whispered.  So they went out and told him I'd be right out.

I saw Tex, and he proceeded to tell me that he went to best buy,  and they were out (surprise,  surprise) but they checked our Stock online, and we had a few ().  He left with a DVD player,  and a DVD rewinder. I imagine his boss' job hit the floor when Tex showed up with an actual DVD rewinder.  &gt;  I waved at my co-workers, "I'm not here" I whispered. So they went out and told him I'd be right out.

lmfao, you know these guys are your true friends when they throw you under the bus at the first opportunity despite explicit instructions to the contrary. Heroin, hopefully. Any Ubisoft product available for pre purchase  dude, any video game for pre-order. It's been a terrible stretch Disposable BIC razors.... I looked like Freddy Kruger after using those.  Cheap or used tires. A cheap mattress. Bottom shelf alcohol. 


Edit: For the alcohol, I generally mean that if if I'm getting a drink at the bar, I don't mind spending an extra dollar or two for name brand instead of watered down rubbing alcohol. (Yes, I believe the hangover is worse with cheap spirits). Also, if you can't afford a ride home, you can't afford to go out drinking.

For tires, I agree that if you have an old beater, you shouldn't be spending a thousand on tires. However I've gotten screwed over a few times with used tires that seemed like an excellent deal, only to be replaced in 10,000 miles. I put a pair of Toyo MTs on my old truck and they lasted me longer than the truck and still looked new after 50,000 miles. Plus I had one punctured from an accident and it was replaced for FREE because I spent an extra $20 for that service up front. (I can't stand seeing new sports cars that someone spent good money on and won't spend more than $300 on tires)

Everyone saying "if it separates you from the ground" this is exactly what I meant. :)


Also gas BBQs, if you only grill a few times a year, go ahead and spend under $500 on one. Just don't be upset when you can't get parts and have to replace the whole thing within 5 years. If you are a BBQ enthusiast that loves grilling for friends and family 5 times a week, spend $4,000 on a Twin Eagles or Lynx, it'll be the last grill you ever buy and sear a steak that would make Ramsey's mouth water. (Yes, a $150 weber charcoal kettle is an amazing grill that will last forever, but cooking 5 times a week on charcoal and needing more cooking area with different temperatures gets old real quick. Plus a Big Green Egg will smoke any Weber) I've spent the last 7 years designing outdoor  kitchens and selling grills while having a private BBQ chef on staff. I think I'm just a bit of a snob when it comes to my food.lol

Edit #2: Dog food or Cat food. I'm not sorry, but I believe that if you can't afford to feed your best friend with something better than dollar store kibble n bits, you can't afford your animal. Yes there are situations where you have to budget to the cheaper dry cereal crap, but no animal should be forced to eat that stuff everyday of their lives. A laptop without fans so strong they can at least ensure that the damn thing doesn't overheat after an hour, unless I purchase another god damn ventilation pad for it. Burger-flavoured potato chips.

Thought it was going to be a flavour explosion - ended up tasting like someone drenched potatoes in pickle juice and fried them in leftover oil from the busiest McDonalds in the world. I have never been so disgusted and disappointed simultaneously.

EDIT: A lot of people seem to be asking about the brand; it's [Willard's](http://www.avi.co.za/brands/16). Burger-rings are fantastic though. Taste nothing like burger, taste a lot like slightly burny goodness.  That sounds disgusting. I once bought some with spareribs flavour, which turned out to be nothing but a weird kind of salt. Organic spring mix from Costco.  The expiration date is never longer than a week away,  and the dark lettuce still finds a way to turn to nasty mush even before that. I've bought dozens and never made it all the way through before throwing it away.  Beats headphones

Edit: So here's the deal. 5 years ago, I made the worst purchase known to man. I bought the Studios after demoing them in a shop and enjoying the sound they gave out. Stupidly, I didn't bother demoing any cheaper known brand headphones. After 5 years of the headphones falling apart, and just constant trouble with the absolutely fucking AWFUL build quality, they finally fell apart beyond repair. I actually hadn't touched them in about 6 months. I opened the carry case to get them out and a small metal barrel fell out of the headband that connects the ear cup to it. Never ever buy these piece of shit headphones no matter how tempting. I enjoyed the sound but they aren't worth the price tag. Go for Audio Technica ATH-M50x's instead... or just RESEARCH. Clearasil products for acne - that shit did NOT help my acne and rather irritated my skin to no end Fat free cheese.

I am not sure what I was thinking. A pack of cigarettes, hopefully.

Edit: just want to say thanks for all your supportive messages. Reading through them at my desk is really helping to curb the craving for some nicotine! Those teeny cups of microwave macaroni. They taste like fucking nuclear waste.


Edit:  I can't believe some of you guys actually like this stuff!

Edit 2: I don't think I've ever had this many people giving me microwave macaroni recipes at once! It's kinda hilarious!  There's a seasoning I've never tried! It's actually not that bad compared to all the other nuclear waste we have around. But if you want hot Mac and cheese in two minutes. And something that will fill you up (or make you nauseous enough to not want to eat again) they are great.
Just don't forget to put water in them... (I'm looking at you college freshman)  What I do to make them edible is put milk and butter in with the cheese powder. Look at Mr. Moneybags over here, milk AND butter in your instant macaroni? Christ Dude I love easy mac you crazy Velveeta has microwave cups too...with Velveeta goop cheese...they are 100% better! A consumer printer. Not being able to scan a file because I didn't have enough ink was the last straw. Why doesn't anyone start a kickstarter for a non drm, just working printer/scanner? Allow me to shill for a moment: ever since I bought a Brother brand laser printer, I've never had a problem printing. I can even successfully cancel a print job if I want to.  Wakie! It's an alarm clock app. But instead of a boring ringtone waking you up, you receive a real call from a random stranger, from anywhere across the world! This morning I was woken up by a nice lady in Lebanon. It's really fun and it's much better at getting your brain awake as you have to engage in a quick social interaction with a complete stranger the second you wake up. You can also wake other people up which is a lot of fun. The other day I woke up a British guy while trying to impersonate the Queen. Overall, highly recommend!  As a socially awkward guy, I would just let it ring.  Just reading that gave me anxiety.  1 drink, I'll consider downloading the app.

2 drinks, I'm playing around with the app.

3 drinks, I call someone to wake them up but I freak out and hang up.

4th drink, I go make a sandwich and forget about the app.

Next day I tell my friends about it, they all install it and we start pranking people all the world. I'd stay awake all night dreading the phone call I had coming.  The app concept seems awesome so I went ahead and installed it, but the collective intelligence of the people writing on the messaging  board is concerning...  I downloaded the app and have only used it once due to the message board. Reading through them make me not want to receive calls from that app. I was hoping it would be more of an international app where some random foreign person would wake me up, not a 12 year old with an attitude problem. What if no one is on the app to call you? Will it automatically ring your phone anyway?

...I'm the kind of person who checks if I set my alarm at least 5 times before falling asleep  &gt;What happens if no one calls me?
If no Wakies are available, our robot will call to wake you and wish you a happy day.

taken from the wakie FAQ *Ring Ring*

Hello?

*Happy Day*

Uh... Thanks.

 *THE EXCHANGE IS COMPLETE. YOU HAVE AWOKEN. I DO NOT SLEEP. I DO NOT FEEL. YOUR HUMAN ARROGANCE WILL BE YOUR UNDOING. HAPPY DAY.* I was awakened by a sultry Russian voice a bit slurred with fatigue or alcohol or sex, hard to tell. She breathlessly wished me a good morning and emitted a long, luxurious yawn that ended in  delighted giggles. This is Maximillian, she said. He is naughty. Very, very naughty. The naughtiest little dog in all of St. Petersburg.  

I agreed. Yes, in all of St. Petersburg. The call went dead, and I stared into the darkness of a Seattle morning. I am Max, I thought. And he is me. And we will be naughty all the day long. 

EDIT: Thanks for the gold! This is mostly a true story. Yes, there was a woman in a faraway place who brought something immediate and real into my dreary morning. All creatures sultry and all creatures small, naughty or nice, we all deserve a very good morning.  This is one of those weird posts I'll remember for years to come for no good reason. My mind will flash to Maximillian the Naughty Russian Dog while I'm in traffic, at the grocery store, spacing out during sex.  

Thanks, asshole. I've been woken up by screaming teens asking if I love them. I wish I was exaggerating. Uninstalled that shit pronto.  well, you *were* awake afterwards, right? Right??

Edit: maybe he's never woken up since he uninstalled the app 6tin - Tinder for windows phone. Free unlimited swipe-rights for all twelve people that have a windows phone. Great for people in the Seattle area I saw more Windows Phones in a week in Italy than 5 years in Seattle, with Italy totaling 3. Flightradar24, premium version.  With this, you can point your phone to an airplane in the sky and it tells you the details of the plane- where it's flying to/from, how long it's enroute, exact position, aircraft type, etc.

Basically when I downloaded it I spent a few hours on my deck until my phone battery ran out, enjoying my geekery and convinced this was one of the best things that's happened to me lately.

Edit: apparently you can ask Siri this too if you have an iPhone but won't get as much detail.  I live next to an airport and in a town with an airforce base, so this might be the worst or best idea every.  &gt; This is a/n [CLASSIFIED] type aircraft, it is flying from [CLASSIFIED] to [CLASSIFIED], it is currently located at [CLASSIFIED] scheduled to arrive in [CLASSIFIED] at [CLASSIFIED], it has been airborne for [CLASSIFIED] minutes and [CLASSIFIED] hours.  


&gt; This aircraft is capable of equipping the following weapons systems; four Hydra 70mm rocket pods, four CRV7 rocket pods, six Zuni rocket pods, two AIM-9 Sidewinder air-to-air missiles, six AGM-65 Maverick air-to-surface missiles, Mk 80 unguided bombs, Mk 77 incendiary bombs, BLU-1 BLU-27/B Rockeye II, Mk20, BL-755 CBU cluster bombs, Paveway laser guided bombs, JDAMs, and one bad ass motherfucking 30mm GAU-8/A Avenger Gatling cannon with 1,174 depleted uranium rounds
 This would have been helpful for the Russian Army in eastern Ukraine... [Unified remote](https://www.unifiedremote.com/). For when the cordless mouse has run out of battery and all you want to do is play a movie without getting out pf bed. The free version is pretty minimal, with enough functionality to emulate a good track pad. The full version has all kinds of special purpose remotes like for slideshow presentation, specific media player controls , etc. YES. I used this constantly. If you're like me and you use your PC as a TV this app is a must.  Mctube. It keeps the audio of a YouTube video playing, even if you lock the screen. As a side note, on iOS, if you go on YouTube via Safari and play videos in there, then when you quit the app, just swipe up to get notification centre and hit play and it will carry on.

It's less convenient as a dedicated app, but it works for me


Edit: sorry, I meant control centre. Also, to the people saying you need to delete the YouTube app: you don't have to do this if you search and open YouTube videos **within the YouTube website**. If you open a link anywhere else then yeah it will open up the app, but obviously like you all say, delete the app to get around this if you open a lot of links for YouTube outside of the website.  Is this for ios? I cant find it on android.  I use pvstar on android it can play YouTube videos and more in the background/with the screen off You're going to have to get pvstar from xdaDevs Now, it got removed off of the play store. 

Edit* an updated version of Pvstar+ Is still available on the amazon app store!  The search function didnt work anymore for me so I had to remove the app...

Could you please send me the link to the xda forum post where I can download the app (if the search function works ofcourse)? Try Viral Lite for Android.  Some cool features as well. There's this cool app called CamScanner. It takes regular photos you have and turns them into high quality PDF's that look like computer scans. I used it to take a pictures of a classmate's book last semester instead of paying $200 for the book. The app does a great job of cleaning up the pictures and jumbling them into one PDF.  This saved my life when I was buying my house.  They kept asking for faxes of stuff, but I would just take a picture and send an email to my Mortgage broker.  Much faster than driving across town to use a Fax machine. The 65 year old owner of my company yelled "Who the hell even uses fax machines anymore?!" when he was asked to fax something. That's how I know it's a dead technology. Fun Fact I learned last month- the only way to complain to Verizon Wireless about issues with their stores is to Fax or snail mail them a letter.

 See every medical institution across the US. WE all have to use faxes. It sucks. All of our medical records are happily being digitized and put online, but we have to send paperwork over an analog system for security...? The dude with the one fax machine across your town has a niche market. Kinkos.  Definitely a niche market. The Google drive app does the same thing but also uploads them to free online storage so you can access the resulting file anywhere. Yep,  and you can add shortcuts that will upload to specific locations on drive.  I have a shortcut for personal receipts and business receipts.   Pick the right shortcut,  take picture, uploaded to the right location

Edit:  my first gold. Thanks!  I do wish I remembered the original comment  by a redditor that turned me on to this feature many many months ago. He/she deserves the credit more than I do.  I feel like you just crushed most if the reason I use ever note...
 It will also OCR the text in 200 languages so you can search by content keyword. CamScanner does a way better job at this than the Google Drive app does. I've tried both.

Also, from CamScanner you can upload pretty easily to Google Drive (or any other service, at least on an Android).

I use it about a dozen times a week and it works great. GasBuddy is cool for when you're short on gas and you gotta find a nearby station.

Also good for comparing rates in your area if youre in need of some Agreed, I especially like how it will notify you when the prices are going up in your area. [Llama](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.kebab.Llama&amp;hl=en), an automation app for Android.  Allows you to create customized if/then events based on your phone's current state, such as your location (from cell tower, WiFi, or GPS), time of day, current app, charging state, etc.  For instance, Llama can detect when you're near your workplace and switch to a quiet notification/ring profile.  You can create an alarm that only goes off based on time and location, for example if you're at home running late for work.  I've used it to toggle on/off my dashcam app when I'm driving.

There are similar apps out there, such as [Tasker](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=net.dinglisch.android.taskerm&amp;hl=en) (not free), but I've found Llama to be the most versatile.  Particularly useful is that Llama can reliably deduce your location from cell towers (others may do this now also), in addition to having 'variables' you can set to create more complex triggers with greater ease: one to correspond to whether I'm sleeping, driving, working, etc. that can be used to determine if other events should trigger. Tasker is definitely more versatile than Llama, but Llama is more user-friendly, less intimidating.  Tasker is for people who want to feel incredibly stupid while setting up really smart automations on their phone.

I have it and use it but I HATE configuring it. Word Lens. 

It translates text using your phone's camera. I used it in Germany, Spain, France, and Italy to translate menus, maps, signs, etc, into English. Saved my ass many many times.  I saw this when it first came out and gave it a try with a german textbooks and found it pretty buggy - I guess its improved over the years? Ehh it's still hit or miss. I recently tried to impress my friends when we went to Paris earlier this year and I looked like a tit.

EDIT: Guess some people find UK slang amusing... Tits are awesome. Did you look awesome?

Sorry I'm one of the designer of Word Lens. [deleted] Google Translate does this, in some languages.    Google bought Word Lens and integrated it Good move by Google. As per usual Yes but Word Lens does it without an internet connection (When you may be in an foreign country without data).  Unfortunately, Google just bought Word Lens and integrated it with Google Translate.  However, you can still find the apk file for Word Lens and download it.  

**Edit:**  Let's just put this up here so I don't have to keep responding below.  Yes you can download language packs on Google's app.  Unfortunately, that only covers text and does not cover the speech or picture aspects.  Those 2 features only work with internet connection.  

Most of the time it's not a huge problem.  Unfortunately for me, I just spent 2 months in Taiwan and have no idea how to type Chinese characters into the translator feature (even with a Chinese Keyboard). So English to Chinese was all I could use it for.

**Edit 2:** Some people are saying that the picture part does work.  What I was referring to as the "picture aspect" in my first edit was actually the scan feature.  I have never tried the picture import. I use Textra as my default messaging app instead of the stock one- it's way more customizable (including sending delays so that you can stop a message from being sent if you accidentally send it too soon). It used to be ad free but the pro version isn't too expensive if you don't like ads.

Edit: people have also suggested chomp sms (by the same company as Textra), QKSMS, and hello as alternatives to the stock messaging app Me too. I was upset when they recently said "we're going to push ads out now, unless you upgrade to the premium version". But once I saw that it was only a dollar I didn't hesitate to buy it. I love the dark theme of Textra. I was expecting like $4.99, honestly.  Just seemed like a premium app that would have a premium price.  I was happy to pay $1 though. Immediately dropped the $1 on textra. that will cost you $1 textra There is an app called Google Opinion Rewards. Every week or so you get a chance to do a survey for a chance at money added to your google wallet. The best part is as soon as you set it up, the first survey comes immediately and gives you a dollar. I used that to pay for the ad-free version of Textra.

Now I only have like $2 in my wallet, but it's free money and I just use it for apps I want.

Edit: RIP my inbox yikes

Here's the link https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.apps.paidtasks&amp;hl=en

If you can't find it in the store it's probably not supported on your device. 

THIS IS ANDROID ONLY

Also only US and a few other countries Made a total of $14.67 since December. Not a lot but it requires minimum effort! Love getting free premium apps. Heads up. They sent a survey a few weeks ago asking if people had been to "Kelp Water Park" or something like that. If you said yes, they asked you what your favorite slide was. Then called you out on your lie saying Kelp Water Park doesn't exist and you're less likely to get picked for future surveys. 

Edit: My girlfriend was the one who got caught. Bailed me out when the same one showed up for me a few hours later.  I can honestly say that it's never occurred to me to lie on a survey. I've gotten paid whether or not I give a 'helpful' answer (ie one that spawns new questions), so I have no incentive to lie.  I've gotten three question surveys that stop after the first question if you don't qualify, netting me like 10 cents.  Sometimes I wonder how much the question would've netted me if I lied and  made myself eligible for the other two questions.

still not worth it in the end if they catch you. That's why you don't lie on surveys like a dumbass.  Yeah, lie like a smartass instead!  But I love Kelp Water Park. That's fucking hilarious. I noticed if you're in a less populated demographic you get way more surverys. I set it up on my Grandmothers Nexus 7 shes earned over $90 I've been using it twice as long and have near $40.

My favorite part is the location surveys and my job is one of the places I'm getting paid twice to go to work.  Haha, that's funny in a way. I never thought to hit "yes" to things I hadn't experienced. Why would you lie on a survey?  Even with ads, they're not intrusive at all. Just one above the message list that blends with the UI so you don't have this obnoxious banner you keep accidentally clicking when it moves. I've been using chompSMS for quite a while now (made by the same people) ever since I switched from iOS. I loved biteSMS. I haven't tried out Textra yet. Binary Talk on android. I can translate text to binary so i send my messages on binary.

Probably explains why i don't have friends anymore though. Did you go from 1 to 0?

 If you have trouble waking up in the morning, try [Sleep Cycle](http://www.sleepcycle.com/) for [iOS](https://itunes.apple.com/app/sleep-cycle-alarm-clock/id320606217) or [Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.northcube.sleepcycle). It uses your phone's accelerometer to determine when wake you up within a customizable time range of your alarm. [deleted] "Now he's up. Now he's down. Now he's up. Is...is he spinning around? Why are you pawing me. Go to sleep. I think he's laying on me now " "He appears to be licking his own balls right now. I give up." At least it's not tracking the dog anymore. I've never felt sad for an application before. This is a new experience. :( This is true. Wonderful app though. I've use it almost every night for 3 years now.

So alone. *cries* I think I'd prefer an app that calls in sick for me if I'm still asleep when I'm supposed to get up.

Anything alarm-like usually ends up being thrown across the room. Next million dollar idea right there :P **In other news, unemployment rates continue to rise as more and more workers across the country are becoming chronically ill. Stick around for ridiculous speculations and an exclusive interview with a completely unrelated person!** But now here's Ollie with the weather report!  IT GON' RAIN. Where is your umbrella Ollie? INSIDE OUT, TWO MILES AWAY! IT'S RAININ' SIDEWAYS I use this, it *can* work great. But I have about a 50% success rate.

The 2 things that can cause it problems, are that - 

1. If it's under a big or heavy pillow it can't hear/sense your movements as well.  I always leave mine half out but I still have problems.

2. If, like me, you sleep in a double bed, you can end up quite away from where your phone is in the night and it won't sense your movements by the morning.

As you can set a window for when you want to be woken up, waking you up at the most optimum time when you are in your lightest sleep (for me it's 7-7.30), it will still wake you up at 7.30 regardless so that's good at least.

What have I noticed a lot too, is that I'll actually wake up, move around and then it'll go off.  This at least encourages me to get up rather than doze off again.

It still work it in my opinion, I'm sure lots of people have 100% success or close, and if nothing else, it can at least help you analyse your sleep a bit with a graph and other data.

edit: other cool things it does, you can set it to wake you up showing todays weather, and it can if you want, ask you to imput your mood when you wake up, and collect heart rate too (using your phones camera and flash light, not sure how it works but it's never been wildly inaccurate) and it can play soothing sounds when you sleep if you want.  I've not tried those myself as I always fall asleep to a podcast (which I should add doesn't affect the app, it seems to be able to filter out background noise really well).  And for those that have them, it can link to your Philps Hue light bulbs so use them to wake you up if you want. Not really a necessity, but definitely something handy.

Calculator Icon (CI) is an app that looks and works exactly like the stock iOS calculator (except it's blue) but when a certain calculation is put in it unlocks and is actually a photo locker, and when you upgrade it you can also hide passwords, links, and other stuff! And yet everyone's password is 80085 Ulmon CityMaps2Go.

I know, I know, there's a zillion travel-related apps out there, but this is the best one I've ever found, by far.

When travelling I don't like to have to buy a SIM card just to use the map on my phone. This app doesn't need any signal to work though, it uses the phone's orientation ~~and your footsteps~~ to figure out where you are, completely offline. And it has information, reviews and pics of every point of interest, allowing you to gauge whether that church is worth the 2 mile walk. If it is, it follows your progress and keeps you going in the right direction. I've used it for both Rome and Chicago now, and each time it's been absolutely invaluable. You just need to download the map/info for each city before you leave. Then you can be completely offline and still find your way around and info about places!

Edit:  TIL my phone's GPS doesn't need a cellular connection :P

Also, it has a Search function that's amazing. If you can't find a street or monument on the map, the Search is a lifesaver. It just uses GPS to determine your position (which also doesn't require a internet or cellular connection)  [Be My Eyes](http://www.bemyeyes.org/) is amazing! Concept: People who can see are blind people's eyes through their phone cams (IOS only, but they are about to launch Android as well) Through a direct video call the app gives blind people the opportunity to ask a sighted volunteer for help, for tasks that require normal vision. The blind person lends the helpers eyes all through his or her smartphone. The sighted helper is able to see and describe what the blind person is showing the sighted helper by filming with the video camera in the smartphone. That way, by working together they are able to solve the problem that the blind person is facing. Google keep - best note taking app. My favorite feature is that is can remind you based on location. So you can set it to remind you to fart on your coworker's keyboard every morning when you get into the office.  You can also do that with Google now. 

"okay Google, remind me to call the bank when I get home" 

Then it reminds me to call the bank like 10 minutes after I arrive at my house.  Whenever I have Google do something like that, it depends on my mood whether I find it awesomely futuristic or really creepy.  I want to double up on this complaint because Google Now just does NOT work for me. It's damn near non-existent on my phone and when it does decide to wake up from its bear like hibernation, it does so after the fact in which the information given is useful, i.e. AFTER I've passed the traffic accident.

What really fires my tits up about it is that, according to my friend, his Now works great all the time. Keeps track of sports, traffic, airplane tickets, scheduling, etc. I would call him a flat out fucking liar except I've seen him use it multiple times and yep, sure enough, it works like he's in a fucking Google commercial. 

Fuck you, Ryan. Hi Tom,  Ryan here.  Does you have a normal Gmail account or a Google Apps account?

Also, get a new phone.  Neat. [Twilight](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.urbandroid.lux)

It's an app for android that adjusts your phone screen according to sunrise and -set. The app turns the screen darker and gives it a red-ish tint in the evenings, making it easier to read without hurting your eyes, aswell as makes it easier to fall asleep after. I haven't found it using any extra battery either, definitely recommend it!


**Edit:** For those of you with computers or apple devices, [f.lux](https://justgetflux.com/) is the way to go.  Oh amazing - sounds like Flux for the computer - the point isn't just to stop your eyes hurting but to change the blue light exposure that can allegedly keep you awake/cause insomnia! [deleted] &gt; you shout into it until the same

I try that anyway every morning, if my alarm would stop because of that I would be so fucked. My phone snoozes when you say "snooze" and turns the alarm off when you say "stop". Productivity has taken a hit, to say the least. That sounds so dangerous. I know my brain would figure out the pattern and just make me say it while still sleeping, that little bastard. I had an alarm that made me do some simple math questions to turn the alarm off. Before I knew it I was doing addition and subtraction in my sleep. Fuck it, just keep upping the problem difficulty until sleeping you outmatches Einstein "That's my secret, I'm always asleep." Dude - if you really, *really* need to get up in the morning, have two children.

5.45am, *every fucking day* - the 'shouting at it until it stops' option doesn't work, and the 'shaking it until it stops' is apparently 'child abuse' and 'frowned upon'.
 Do they yell at you in Japanese?
 No - but the smallest one shits itself constantly, like one of those weird Japanese movies where everything shits on everything else. 4/10 - Can't recommend:

App installation is fun, in fact, I would install this app every day if that was an option. Unfortunately, the app is expensive. Upfront app cost can vary, plus, in-app purchases will gouge you of any savings you may have had.

App is not easily uninstalled. Once installed, can take AT LEAST 18 years before it will not stay with you.


*EDIT - Holy shit my inbox, also, thanks for the gold!
 Plus it take 9 fucking months to arrive, that's fucked. However you could try to install over and over again while you're waiting But you can still run the installer as often as you want during that time, and it doesn't reset the countdown or overwrite your install. He just wants to wake up earlier, not despise life. In the same vein: [Wakie](https://wakie.com/) is an app that gives you a wake up call from a complete stranger, sometimes from across the world.  Pretty crazy getting a random phone call from someone speaking a totally different language.  It's a two way street though, if you receive calls you will occasionally be asked to wake someone else up.

EDIT:  Well I guess it is a one way street.  You're not actually required to wake anyone up.  Completely voluntary, for those of you that don't want to. *gets phone call and wakes up in a groggy dismay* 
"uh hello?" 
*random jibberish on the other end* 
"...what the fuck? *ends call*
*goes back to sleep* Nobody I know calls me (as opposed to text, email, etc) unless someone died or is in the hospital. I don't need an anxiety attack every morning. Even worse when they start speaking Japanese, Russian, or - worse - Sumerian. I tried that for awhile. It was cool waking up to someone in Australia and sometimes by some very drunk people in Europe on the weekends. I hated the call was only for 30seconds though. You do occasionally get some creeps btw.  Damn I wanted to talk with a random drunk European over the phone. Reddit isn't enough. Oh I can dig that! I had an alarm clock app for a while that you needed to get up and spin around until it stopped that was too dizzying but something that gets you moving in the morning sounds like a great concept! Does it support iOS? I use Room For Thought every day. If you like life logging it's pretty cool. It sends you a message during the day that you have to take a picture. The idea is to make the picture as soon as you notice the message. In that way you collect boring, but true images, of your everyday life. At the end of the year you can order a photo book with the pictures from that previous year you took.  Edit again: I listed some more good games in a comment [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/37g89b/reddit_what_lesser_known_apps_cant_you_live/crodzig) (in case you are interested) :)

I am kind of an app junkie. I have like 200 some apps on my phone, and I've downloaded probably over 1000 in my life. However, I have an iphone, so here are some iOS favorites (since this thread is heavily android biased). Some may or may not be on android, I haven't looked. Also, disclaimer, I got (almost) all of these apps when they were on sale for free, so I have no idea how much they might cost now. However, I can say I have only included my all time favorite apps and would gladly pay for them all now:

**PRODUCTIVITY**

* [Procraster](http://procrasterapp.com/) - my FAVORITE pomodoro/task management app. It has a customizeable timer that I use with the pomodoro method (25 mins work/5 min break). It allows you to enter your specific reward you will get during your break. It lets you track and categorize tasks, and it can automatically pick the most urgent for you. My favorite feature is that it can put work sessions on your calendar (I have mine on a separate google calendar), so you can go back and see how productive you were!

* [Timeful](http://www.timeful.com/) - you put in things you want to make time to do, it gives you slots on your calendar when you can do them. You commit to those times and schedule them, making you more likely to get things done.

* [UnF*&amp;% your habitat](http://www.unfuckyourhabitat.com/) - has a website and an app. Helps you clean your house in a fun way. God knows I need the help...

* [Balanced](http://balancedapp.com/) - a great way to help you quantify "I want to do X more often."

* [happier](https://www.happier.com/) - an app where you can record happy things each day. It encourages you to do at least 3, and you can share with friends. Helps you see the positive things in life :)

* [Grades](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/grades-3/id427900301?mt=8) - one of my favorite assignment trackers (I am a grad student). It keeps track of what grade you will need on an assignment to reach your target course grade, and it has some entertaining easter eggs.

* [grid diary](http://griddiaryapp.com/en/) - a great way to help you take even just little notes to track your days. I've stopped using this ever since I started using a physical [bullet journal](http://www.bulletjournal.com/), but I still recommend it.

**FITNESS**

* [bodbot](http://www.bodbot.com/) - also has a web app. Gives you a daily workout based on your goals and specifications. 

* [Sworkit](http://sworkit.com/) - has cardio, strength, yoga, and stretching that you can customize to any length. Will give you timers for exercise, and is all bodyweight/at home based, so you have no excuse not to work out for even just 5 minutes

* [all-in fitness](http://sport.com/all_in_fitness.html) - has a huge range of training plans and exercises, and lets you pick which muscles to target. Has video of exercise form. Lets you log exercises and calories and track your body changes.

**MEDITATION/MINDFULNESS**

* [buddhify](http://buddhify.com/) - some really useful guided meditations for a TON of different activities/feelings.

* [Breathful](http://www.breathfulapp.com/) - a more open-ended mindfulness trainer. It's a meditation timer. While meditating, you tap the screen when your mind wanders. Over time, your mind will wander less, and you can see your progress in the form of fewer taps recorded while you meditate.


**LANGUAGE LEARNING**

* [mindsnacks](https://www.mindsnacks.com/) - language learning app that uses actually fun games. Pretty much only good for learning vocab, not grammar, but fun and motivating!

* [hiragana pixel party](http://hiraganapixelparty.com/) - perfect if you are learning japanese. Video game style way of learning hiragana and katakana (Japanese "alphabets").

**UTILITES/MISC? (not sure what to call these)**

* [Countable](https://www.countable.us/) - I HIGHLY recommend this app, particularly if you are not aware/involved in government issues. It helps you become educated on what is going on in your local and larger community, and makes it easy to send messages to your representatives to make your opinion heard. Slacktivism that actually does something. Plus, what good is democracy if you don't use it? has a web platform as well, check it out.

* [Storm, by weather underground](http://www.wunderground.com/storm) - includes radar, past and future, a nice interface, and detailed weather reports.

* [kuvva wallpapers](https://www.kuvva.com/apps) - BEAUTIFUL wallpapers by artists and designers. Can also find some images free online on their website.

* [cute or not](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/cute-or-not/id954868101?mt=8) - swipe right/left on an endless stream of cute (or not) animal pics. A wonderful pick me up when you need cheering up.

* [pzizz](http://pzizz.com/) - I swear to god, this ALWAYS puts me to sleep, even when I am having trouble. At the very least, it helps me feel relaxed. I've tried MANY sleep apps and this is the most consistently successful one I've used. Love it.

**PHOTOGRAPHY**

* [1 second everyday](http://1secondeveryday.com/) - like a photo a day, but with a 1 second video everyday. The results are way cooler than you imagine, and it helps you visualize how you are spending time in life :)

* [snapseed](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/snapseed/id439438619?mt=8) - my favorite photo editing app.

* [flic](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/flic-delete-manage-camera/id918263212?mt=8) - helps you quickly clear out your camera roll, using the "swipe right, swipe left" thing. Fun and quick, and clears up lots of phone space.

* [freeprints app](http://www.freeprintsnow.com/) - will mail you 85 printed photos FREE each month, you only pay shipping (which is like $1.99).

**MUSIC**

* [applichord mini](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/applichord-mini/id367863483?mt=8) - great for musicians and non-musicians alike. Lets you play with chord progressions :)

* [iReal Pro](http://irealpro.com/) - expensive, but GREAT if you are a musician and want backing tracks. Particularly useful for practicing jazz and improvising.

* [Practice+](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/practice+-tuner-metronome/id858142974?mt=8) - all in one tuner, metronome, &amp; recorder. Super helpful for practicing.

**GAMES**

* [Doug dug](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/doug-dug./id855900711?mt=8) - SUPER ADDICTIVE. Great for killing time

* [Hook](http://appadvice.com/review/hook) - Puzzle game that starts out simple then gets tricky. Really makes you think.

* [Red Herring](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/red-herring/id663596265?mt=8) - word based puzzle game. Makes you think.

* [Spite and Malice card game](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/spite-malice-free/id336580901?mt=8) - surprisingly addictive card game.

* [Fixum](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/fixum/id829487130?mt=8) - a good puzzle game for visual/spatial challenges. Have to rearrange the tiles to match the picture. It's harder than it sounds. Also it was better before they updated to a semi-freemium model, but it's still worth playing in my opinion.

* [Twenty](http://twenty.frenchguys.net/) - Try it here online, then get addicted like i did and try it on a touch screen, then become even more addicted like I also did and buy the full game modes... I don't often pay for apps but this was worth it.

* [mitchiri neko dash](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=jp.co.overfence.mitchirinekodash) - they have this on ios too but I had trouble finding it. It's kind of like Temple Run, but japanese and with cats and super catchy music.

* [The battle cats](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/the-battle-cats/id850057092?mt=8) - just try it.

* [Magic touch](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/magic-touch-wizard-for-hire/id946917251?mt=8) - draw gestures to pop balloons. Somehow it is both fast-paced and zen.

* [Lost Yeti](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/lost-yeti/id774933630?mt=8) - adorable and fun and puzzly. Love it. 

* [out of water](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/fish-out-of-water!/id578467798?mt=8) - wheeee throw the fishies!

Okay, that is enough for now. I have way more apps, but those are my favorite "unknowns." I hope you enjoy!! And I hope this post doesn't get too buried. Wooot technology.

**EDIT EDIT EDIT:** I compiled a list of all the apps on this list that have android versions. Links can be found [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/37g89b/reddit_what_lesser_known_apps_cant_you_live/crnawhc). Enjoy, android users! :) Also, I'm glad so many people found the list helpful! I'm just glad that writing about something I'm passionate about can help make others happy :D Google Opinion Rewards. Every now and then Google will present a survey to you. You'll answer it, and get Google Play credits. The surveys take anywhere from 10-30 seconds, and the payout is about 20-60 cents each on average. you get maybe 1 or 2 surveys a week on average. 

I've had the app for a few months now and I've almost got 10 bucks in Google Play money.

Edit: When you initially install it, it will ask you "do you want us to send you all surveys, or only the surveys that pay money?". I chose the "only money ones" option, but my wife chose the "all surveys" option. I wish I had chosen the free option too, because she gets twice as many surveys as I do. They're fun. Reminder that they try to trick you constantly. Telling you a command in the last sentence to see if you're paying attention, asking if you've been to places that don't exist, etc. Try to tell the truth as much as possible or they'll pretty much ban you. I regularly write surveys for this platform. The reason we include attention check questions is because about 20-30% of responses will be garbage without it. I need to be able to sift through all the noise and exclude people when needed, especially if I'm asking open-ended questions that require a bit more effort.  This is true. I try to be completely honest when answering the surveys. The surveys will tell you how many questions you could possibly be answering and I know people will try to game the system in order to get the most questions because more questions = more money. But they will totally call you out on it. 

A friend was telling me she got a list of products and had to check the brands she uses. She checked all of them and got a response along the lines of, "XXX is not an actual brand. Please read the questions carefully and answer truthfully." and something about keeping their data legit. And then for a while after that she saw a significant decrease in the amount of surveys she was getting. 

Guys definitely get less surveys overall. I maybe get 3 a week and most of them are "which of these places have you been to recently?" I only get about 10 cents for those but it's free money for 5 seconds of your time.  Yeah they don't mess around. And it makes sense, as you can imagine, if their surveys were spotted with a bunch of lies, the data they get from them couldn't fully be trusted.  I've gotten $30 total. And it can also be that your wife gets more because she is a female and there's less girls and more guys for the surveys Yeah, my wife gets way more surveys than me, but mostly they are asking her when the last time she went to Subway was. She never goes to Subway, but this thing sure wants to know if she does. They've probably paid her $20 in the past year to know that she never goes to Subway.  Honesty is important. They sent it a survey a week or so ago asking about a certain water park. If you said you'd been there and answered all the questions about it, the survey ended by scolding you for lying because such a park did not exist. Presumably, you'll get fewer or no surveys after that.  Well when you check no, you get a dollar. That was fun. I signed up 6 months ago. Never received a thing. All of the information I gave when signing up was legitimate.

Just saying; YMMV.

EDIT: Probably fixed. Looks like I had never gotten "approved" for one reason or another. Some of it definitely has to do with location.

I'm getting totally different surveys now that I'm down in NC than the ones I was getting all year in NY. **AnkiDroid.**

It's a flashcard application.  You make your own cards though, (or you can download decks that other users have made public).  You don't need to sign up or make an account- you just need to provide an email address ***if*** you want to be able to back up your deck.

AnkiDroid shows you a card- let's say you're learning Spanish.  The front of the card says "Dog," so you think about it, and say "el perro;" then you click the "Show answer" button.  It shows the answer and you are left with four different options:

wrong- show again in ten minutes

hard- show again tommorow

fair- show again in three days

easy- show again in 1 week.

Then next time you see the card, your options are:

wrong- show again in ten minutes

hard- show again in 3 days

fair- show again in 1 week

easy- show again in 9 days.

Eventually your options become:

wrong- 10 minutes

hard- 7 months

medium-  year

easy- 1.4 years


=====

I use this for several different languages.  I also made a deck to learn -- --- .-. ... . / -.-. --- -.. . (morse code).  You can also add pictures, so I have countries and their flags, countries and their outlines, etc.  I have seen pictures of medical students that have a picture of a organs with stuff labeled.  You can make decks based on any idea you get.  As well as pictures, you can add sound- I read about a guy who added mp3 files of bird whistles. Stronglifts 5x5

I have it as an iPhone app and I'm not sure if it's for Android, but it is a great app for anyone who's just beginning to lift weights. It has a timer, automatically recalculates how much you should be lifting and what lifts you should be doing that day based on your previous workouts.  [It does exist for android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.stronglifts.app&amp;hl=en_GB) iOS - On My Way. 

Enter your destination, and it sends a text message to whoever you want with a link to a continually updated map / marker along with ETA. 

Every time we drive to visit the wife's family, or my daughter leaves to go back to college, or anyone ever needs to know where we are and when we're getting where we're going? This app is awesome.

My wife used it to stunning effect last weekend for my surprise 40th birthday party, in fact.  Glympse does the same thing, iOS and Android. 

Edit - fixed spelling, thanks /u/ThetaGamma2 Well it was in the news recently, but Waze. It is a gps navigation app that also lets you tag things on the map. The one it got in the news for was cops/speed traps, however it is also for debris in the road, accidents, stopped cars, potholes etc.

It also allows users to tag roads that may be under construction or closed,  so it reroutes you.
 I'm 90% sure that Google bought it Yes but it's way more useful than Google Maps. Google Maps uses its traffic data but if doesn't show a lot of stuff. Waze and google maps have different applications. Waze is the best option if you know where you want to go, and want to get there in the fastest time. 

For instance if I type in "123 Main St Washington, DC" Google maps will say, "Oh here's the easiest way to get there, it'll take you 50 min." and Waze will be like "Here's a backroad you can take to avoid traffic, also watch out for the cop 2 miles up. Oh and I'll get you there in 40 min. BOOM time saved!"

But if you type in "McDonalds in Watertown, MA" Google Maps will be like "Oh hey there isn't a McDonald's in Watertown but there is a McDonalds one town over in Cambridge, do you want to go there?" And Waze will be all like "I don't know what you want from me!!" 

edit: Waze is also user/community driven^(get it... *driven*) which means it's really great if you live or drive in an area where a lot of people use it, but it can be shitty if you're driving through a place where no one uses it. My guess is the people who dislike it live in such places.   I've been hoping Google would just merge Waze tagging into Maps because I really can't stand Waze UI. They just put in waze road icons to maps, like road work and whatnot, so hopefully that's a sign it will eventually happen.  Unfortunately, not enough people ~~here~~ in my area use Waze, so it's no more useful than Google Maps.  Used it when I was in LA, though, and it was fantastic, notified me that there was an accident ahead several miles before I came to it.

Edit: clarified my wording to specify that I mean there aren't enough Waze users where I live. Yeah, it only reaches full potential on interstates and cities. I still use it in rural areas to tag stuff just in case. DuoLingo! 34 days of French in a row and hating my life.

I can't deny that it's helping more than any other app I've used in the past. 10/10 would recommend. &gt;34 jours du Franais un aprs l'autre, et je deteste ma vie.

&gt; Je ne peut pas refuter qu'il m'aide plus que les autres apps que j'ai utiliser.  10/10 le recommende.

CCPT I giggled wholeheartedly at your CCPT. Correctais-Ca-Pour-Toi.  Currently learning italian so I can insult people while making it sound very nice.  Relay for Reddit. The most beautifully designed app for Reddit I've found.   [Duet Display](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/id935754064) saved my ass in school. Lets you use your iPad/iPhone as an extra screen (obviously more convenient with iPad) and it works much more seamlessly than other apps because it's a wired connection. Oh that is BEAUTIFUL - I always wanted to get a small screen that I could use to just have emails/notifications up all the time rather than occupying a monitor. Flipp shows all weekly flyers with sale prices in your area. My grocery store offers price matching, so all I have to do is show my items to the clerk on my phone and I get the matched price. Much easier than cutting out paper flyers. It's amazing to see the price disparity in so many brand name items. I've saved hundreds of dollars with it. Easily the best app I have.  [MyFitnessPal](https://www.myfitnesspal.com/): simple calorie tracker which also shows the breakdown of nutrition of the foods you have consumed. It takes 5 mins out of my day to input what i've eaten, either through barcode scanning or manual search for each item. I've slowly put on weight while lifting (my goal) and it's nice to get a sense of where I am at i.e. how much more food I can still eat. There's a lot more to it than I'm giving it credit but I don't use it!

Edit: ok I get it, this isn't "lesser known", but it felt like it was to me as the only other person I know who knew about it was my gf so :/ I really like this app. I've lost 10lbs while using it. I never realized how much I was really eating before tracking it.  I've lost 200lbs total, 160 using that app. It really makes things simple. Now I'm using it to track macros while I work on getting strong.

If you need to lose a lot of weight or even gain,  I second this recommendation. This one is a life safer, I love the database/barcode scanning. Even when I go to some obscure restaurant that I think won't have a listing I open up the app and there are like 9000 variant entries for their menu Wunderlist. It's a list-maker app but has so many cool features. I use it for all of my shopping lists and wishlists, task lists, etc., but I also just started using it for coupons. I'm not a couponer by any means but whenever I get a store coupon in the mail I always put it in my wallet and forget about it. With Wunderlist, I can add the name of the store for the coupon (i.e. 20% off Bath and Body Works) and then add the expiration date. Whenever the date is coming near, it'll tell me. It's much simpler than using the calendar because all the coupons are listed right there. Really handy app if you're a list-maker like me :) RunPee - It tells you the best times during a movie to go to the bathroom and summarizes what happens during those times. It also tells you if there's anything after the credits, or if you're running late summarizes the first few minutes of the movie. It also has spoiler free reviews as well as links to the IMBD and Rotten Tomatoes page for each movie. And you can set it to email you when the DVD for the movie comes out. 

Edit: My top comment of all time is about RunPee. I'm ok with that.  This is seriously one of the most unique and interesting apps anyone has listed.  Also it's kind of hilarious to think someone would have had to watch all those movies with the idea of what would be the best time to get up and take a leak. Places I've Pooped. You drop a pin to mark a place you've pooped. If you keep at it and tend to travel, it's really awesome to see the world map with a bunch of pins in different countries/states. I've gotten to the point where I'll go to new places just so I can take a shit there and add it to my poop-map.  If this had a section for public reviews I'd be all over it. Plus it'd give you something great to do while dropping a load. 

For example, I'm going right now and I would write this if I could:

The atmosphere has left me wanting, but the aroma here is pleasant. Morale remains high in this, my cubicle of bowel expulsion. Traffic is low for a public toilet, and they have one of those high power air driers. 

3.5/5 needs work on atmosphere specifically new decor and updated faucets. Everything else is great though. Would visit again.  I actually wrote an app that does this. Also there are 14 trophies to unlock - [iPoop](https://itunes.apple.com/ca/app/ipoop/id723140052?mt=8) I can't remember  the app but before I got a new phone I had an app that tracks how much your company has paid you to poop. Basically a stop watch you start when you go to the bathroom and it calculates the amount. Poop Salary! Pushbullet  
It allows you to send messages between your phone and your computer and it shows you messages you receive on your phone as a desktop notification.  
Edit: Thanks for the gold kind stranger, now off to find out what gold actually does :)  
Edit2: A lot of people are suggesting [MightyText](http://mightytext.net/), which seems to be a good alternative. And apparently OS X already has this feature built-in in combination with an iPhone. Pushbullet is AMAZING! I came here to say it, so many times I've found articles or websites I don't have time to read. Pushbullet it for later so I don't lose it! It's amazing for sending links, pictures and messages from pc to phone and vice versa, never again do I say "Gah.. I wish i had this link on my phone for the shitter." ^^I ^^don't ^^say ^^it ^^often You can also have a common clipboard, when you copy a text on your PC you can paste it on your phone and vice versa I just enjoy it for being able to text from my computer.  I love pushbullet because it allows me to send text messages from my computer with my FULL SIZE KEYBOARD.  Fuck phone keyboards. BroApp texts good morning to my girlfriend everyday at 9am so if I sleep in or forget she doesn't say anything.

It's nice to wake up to the conversation already started with her and she is like a giddy little kid when it comes to good morning texts That awkward moment when you have a breakup and forget to disable the app... Or when she sleeps over and gets a text from him even though she can clearly see that he didn't send it. Morning routine is an awesome alarm clock. A lot of snoozing options etc. I have severe attention deficit disorder, so I set mine up to go off and pull up the nanny cam to check on the offspring. 10 minutes later it goes off, tells me to make coffee, and pulls up reddit. 20 minutes later it tells me to shit and shower so I won't be late. It's basically my mom now and I'm 30. Lately I've really enjoyed [8Tracks](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.e8tracks) (Google Play link) for streaming music.  Citymapper

For anyone living in London, this is the most useful app you'll ever come across, I love this app so much I think it may be my best friend [ES File manager](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.estrongs.android.pop&amp;hl=en_GB) on Android. It is by far the most comprehensive file manager on the market. The ability open my phones file structure from my PC with a couple of clicks makes transfering files a snap. I wouldn't be without it. FastCustomer - Will wait on hold for you and call you when a person is on the line. BeyondPod for all that podcast listening!

Edit: 

I've gotten a couple of replies that ask how it is better than the default in iphone? I have no clue. I've never had an iphone. I use it because i like it, and there is no good default app on Android. I like pocket casts. I paid for the option to use it in Chrome as well on my computer.  Love [Pocket Casts](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=au.com.shiftyjelly.pocketcasts&amp;hl=en). One of the most used apps on my phone. Really clean and slick design. Especially like how the the interface colour automatically adjusts to match the album art of the current pod cast. 

Also, I had no idea they release web access. Definitely be using that Was my go to. Podcast addict is just so much better Huge fan of Goodreads.

I read a bunch so walking into Chapters and scanning a bar code is a pretty good indicator of whether or not a book is decent or not.  Here are a bunch for android (sorry iOS):

 
* **[Instructables](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.adsk.instructables&amp;amp;hl=en)** - For when you're feeling crafty and want a great how-to tutorials.

* **[My Boy!](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.fastemulator.gbafree&amp;amp;hl=en)** / **[SuperGNES](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.bubblezapgames.supergnes_lite&amp;amp;hl=en)** / **[FPse](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.emulator.fpse&amp;amp;hl=en)** / **[PPSSPP](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.ppsspp.ppsspp&amp;amp;hl=en)** - Replay your entire childhood.  All of it.  

* **[Sixaxis Controller](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.dancingpixelstudios.sixaxiscontroller&amp;amp;hl=en)** - What good is all those old games without a good controller to back you up.  

* **[Word Lens](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.questvisual.wordlens.demo&amp;amp;hl=en)** - Uses your phones camera to translate other languages by superimposing the words on your screen.  Super cool.

* **[Cerberus](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.lsdroid.cerberus&amp;amp;hl=en)** - Best antitheft on the market.  Track your phone, send messages, remote wipe.  All the goodness you want if the worst happens.

* **[Chromecast](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.apps.chromecast.app&amp;amp;hl=en)** - Put what's on your phone, on the TV! *Requires $35 receiver, so worth it though.

* **[Rainy Days](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.neenbedankt.rainydays&amp;amp;hl=en)** - Radar.  Thats it.  No bloat, just where the rain is falling anywhere in the world.

* **[DataSync](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.quintstoffers.DataSync.beta&amp;amp;hl=en)** - Maintain app/game data over multiple devices.  

* **[Greenify](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.oasisfeng.greenify&amp;amp;hl=en)** - Keep that high powered piece of entertainment running longer by saving your battery life!

* **[Solid Explorer](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=pl.solidexplorer&amp;amp;hl=en)** - Need to move a file from your cloud to your device to your computer.  This does it all.

* **[Moon Reader+](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.flyersoft.moonreader&amp;amp;hl=en)** - Best document viewer on the market IMHO.  PDF, ePub, CBR, everything! Hell, it'll even read to you if you want it too.

* **[MXPlayer](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mxtech.videoplayer.ad&amp;amp;hl=en)** - Plays almost every video you can find, and it's free too.

* **[Torque](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.prowl.torque&amp;amp;hl=en)** - Check engine light always on? Find out why.  Pulls engine codes, engine info in real time.  **Requires* a $20 ODB2 bluetooth broadcaster.

* **[tTorrent](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=hu.tagsoft.ttorrent.lite&amp;amp;hl=en)** - A lite torrent client for your phone, why let free wifi go to waste.

* **[TV Portal](http://tv-portal.en.uptodown.com/android)** - Almost every show from everywhere.  If it's on the net, it's on TV Portal.  Bonus points for using this with **[LoaderDroid](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.zloy.android.downloader&amp;amp;hl=en)**. and saving whole shows and movies for later viewing pleasure.

* **[DiskUsage](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.diskusage&amp;amp;hl=en)** - Help I've downloaded too many apps!  Lightweight space management solution.  Find out where all those used GBs went.

* **[Tasker](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=net.dinglisch.android.taskerm&amp;amp;hl=en)** - High learning curve, but unlimited possibilities.  Build crazy complex IF .... THEN... statements for your phone based on conditions such as cell phone tower, wifi state, battery life, screen brightness.  Automate your life!

* **[TED](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ted.android&amp;amp;hl=en)** - Ted talks on tap!

* **[Swiftkey](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.touchtype.swiftkey&amp;amp;hl=en)** - A learning keyboard.  Best featue is being able to change the long press delay. Now I can type faster than ever.

* **[Pandora](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.pandora.android&amp;amp;hl=en)** - Everybody needs music.

* **[Chrome Remote Desktop](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.chromeremotedesktop&amp;amp;hl=en)** - See your computer through your phone's eyes. i want to learn how to use tasker so bad, but i just open it and instantly give up I sure am glad my phone has 64 GB of space, because I just installed like 50 apps. And I just know I won't use any of them. GasBuddy. 

Tells me how much gas per gallon costs around me - but more importantly it simply tells me where the nearest gas station is via map. Let's just say I live on the edge...of an empty tank. Astronomer here!  My definition of "can't live without" may be a bit weird, but I personally love a free download I got called "Sputnik!"  Basically it finds your location and then tells you the passes for the International Space Station (ISS) over the next few days at that location, as well as the [Iridium flares](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Satellite_flare#Iridium_flares) over the same time period (basically, satellites that will suddenly show up out of nowhere, get as bright as the brightest star in the sky, and completely disappear again).  The app will also tell you the direction of the satellite in the sky and its brightness, you can set a reminder, and you can even look at passes in the last 48 hours in case you find yourself wondering what that super bright thing in the sky was last night.

Very cool and I highly recommend it! This list is very partial, but those three are being used everyday, all day.

[AdAway](https://f-droid.org/repository/browse/?fdid=org.adaway) - Adblocker for Android. Works best with root.

[KeePassDroid](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.android.keepass) - Password manager, able to work with KeePass volumes

[Greenify](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.oasisfeng.greenify) - ~~Intelegentally~~ Intelligently closing apps while i'm not using them. Works best with root.

Edit: Spelling. Because i'm so 'intelegenat' I highly recommend people start using KeePass. I really like [Keepass2Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=keepass2android.keepass2android) because of QuickUnlock and the keyboard. [Series Guide](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.battlelancer.seriesguide) lets you track which episodes of a TV show you have seen and when the next episode will air (and you can then import it into your calendar) I love Nova Launcher, if that counts as an app.  I love the ability to make my phone interface look and do what I want.  Personally, I like a single home screen for widgets and multiple quick launch bars for apps.  It also made my transition from HTC One to Samsung Note 4 pretty seamless because I could set everything up exactly the same. [Safe Trek](http://www.safetrekapp.com/)

Turn the app on whenever you don't feel safe. You keep your finger on the button the entire time until you're at a safe location. As soon as you take your finger off you have about 5 seconds to enter your 4 digit password. If you don't enter it then the police are called and given your location. It's amazing and I use it a lot. It's only $2 but for some reason it was free when I downloaded it so it may go on sale sometimes. Everyone should have it. On-Screen button? or can you use volume keys or other hardware keys?

Seems like it would raise attention to yourself if it was on-screen keys.. Charges per month. Careful, they keep increasing the cost too... As an android user without access to the Blue Alien app? I use Reddit Is Fun.

It's the best reddit app which I've come across which almost mirrors the website interface. Personally, I prefer Reddit Sync. It feels more like an app with functionality where as Reddit Is Fun felt more like a slightly formatted mobile webpage to me. Try out Relay for reddit its great, I used to use reddit sync

Edit: by the way there's a sub-reddit for the app for those that want to sub to it

/r/RelayForReddit  Just downloaded Relay.. Thank you. My life is whole now. So much better than Reddit is Fun. After the material design update, it is hands down the best redditing app

Hell, it was the best before, too On relay now after your recommendation and it's going to take some getting used to, but I like it. You'll be in love with it in no time, when I started using it i couldn't believe how bad the other apps are in comparison Relay is amazing. I've used all the reddit apps and I've finally settled on relay for reddit. It simply is the best hands down. Relay for Reddit is the best Android app. I've used it for years. So now my phone memory is mysteriously full... Get DiskUsage to sort that out. Chirp is quite interesting - it can send messages, images, video etc from one device to a nearby device, just using electronic bird-song.

One device produces a few seconds of chirps, the other device listens, and hey presto, the content appears.

COOL EXTRA - I guess the devices don't need to be near each other, you could chirp through Skype, the radio, the TV etc. 

NOT THAT COOL EXTRA - The content itself is actually uploaded to Chirp's server, and the birdsong chirp is just a URL to the content on the server. So, don't Chirp your dickpics, Snowden. Talking about problems *before* they escalate.

I have a good friend that has his faults, like we all do, but the one thing I can always trust is that if he feels there's a problem between us, he'll come to talk about it and try and fix it. It may be a false alarm, but I much prefer a false alarm every now and then over real problem based on imagined or accidental slight. How to spot media bias, fear-mongering and misinformation. Unfortunately the media doesn't do a very good job of simply reporting the all the facts so i think this is a useful skill. 

Side-note: It doesn't necessarily have to be media; I remember an Amnesty International meeting I was at last week where the speaker showed a heavily biased video on the current state of American consumerism. The older students watching the speech picked up on the bias and lack of supporting evidence. Despite this, there were some very young students attending who probably didn't pick up on it. Sooo much bias comes from choosing what stories to report as well. Ignoring a story because the editor doesn't want to embarrass 'their guy' had huge implications on the public perception. Nutrition. An unbiased understanding of nutrition and exercise, and why it's so important. 

Edit: I don't claim to be an expert on nutrition (I don't have much need for it anymore), I just really wish more emphasis was put on health. It's so much easier to avoid all of the pitfalls of poor diet, than to fix them afterwards.  It's so frustrating as someone who grew up in a holistic family. All our food knowledge came from mom's instincts. We couldn't have a microwave because she was afraid of anything that changes molecules after our physicist uncle told her straight up it was fine.

Now that I'm an adult and trying to lose weight and gain muscle, it's astounding how impossible it is to actually know anything because of how contradictory the sources are. Don't read online articles; swing by a local college campus and just buy a nutrition 2000 level college text book or something similar. The people you are getting advice from learned it from that way, learn the basics yourself so you have a foundation and then go from there. 

I decided to do my BS in nutrition because I had already researched so much into it because I was an athlete, I'd say that I learned 80% of what I know from the first few 2000 level courses you start off with. If it's too expensive, go to a Booksmart or something nearby the campus with the older editions and you can find something for like 15 bucks. Maintaining good self esteem and healthy relationship boundaries. 

Lots of people out there can get into low self esteem and not know how to get out, this can leave them vuneruble to some shitty people when they try and make friends or date.

Also people who end up in abusive situations because they believe they should be treated that way(not their fault can be from years of being treated badly) or put up with red flags or bad behaviour because 'they're family/friends everyone's like this' or 'that's what girls/guys are all like in relationships' or 'you put up with it because of love'. Teaching healthy boundaries and the warning signs you're being taken advantage of or in danger in a relationship. Remember folks, confidence isn't about "this person wants me" but "my life will go on even if this person doesn't want me".  Short story had a shitty childhood how do I learn these things? Don't know that you'd be open to it, but studying some Buddhism could help. I'm a Christian, but Buddhism has helped me. The way I see it, a lot of religions are simply a list of what you should become without actually giving you the map on how to become that person, but Buddhism is the how to instructional video with Google map directions on how to reach a peace of mind.

I think this principle of Buddhism could help you if you are interested in hearing:
A basic principle is that people cause sadness/anxiety for themselves because of their attachment to the past and future (i.e. you can't let go of the past/consistently blame it for your current state of mind and you worry if you will have the life you want in the future/what's coming in the future). To let go of that sadness and anxiety, detach yourself from the past and future, and learn to live in the present. Reading into Buddhism will teach you how to live in the present.  

Hope it helps! How to swim They have drownings in the rivers around here regular as clockwork, and amazingly they often involve someone wading around on the edges or on a raft who didn't know how to swim. Not only am I surprised people can't swim but then to go into a fucking river? Sheesh.
 In Australia we have an entire TV show dedicated to watching professional lifeguards pull people who can't swim out of the ocean. Australia is probably the last place you would want to just walk into the ocean and hope for the best. We had a show like that too in the US, but the lifeguards always seemed to run really slowly. Personal hygiene. Critical thinking.  How to look at an idea and process it in a logical way.

The problem is, of course, while everyone agrees that kids should learn critical thinking skills, they are really *really* difficult to teach. I'd say half the battle of critical thinking is teaching people to overcome bias. Everyone's a critical thinker when they hear something they disagree with. The challenge is encouraging people to think critically about something they agree with.


Of course, the other half of the battle is teaching thinking skills that go beyond familiarity with the Wikipedia page on logical fallacies. Like I appreciate the effort people are putting into teaching themselves critical thinking but the amount of misused and abused logical fallacies just blows my mind.  You put very well a concept that is maddeningly frustrating.  I see it on reddit all the time.  If a fact or figure agrees with someone's position, it is often accepted at face value.  But facts or figures that challenge a belief, and suddenly the person is a master of subtlety and context, and is apt to make extremely fine distinctions and to point out shortcomings of methodology.  

Personally, I do not feel comfortable expressing a position on a controversial subject unless I feel that I understand both positions well enough that I can argue for either convincingly.  I understand that in many cases, it is easy to dismiss others' opinions as baseless or foolish, but taking the time to understand the other side is the best way to be sure of one's own position. 

 Personal finance, everything from making a budget to understanding some investment basics for retirement planning.

Edit: holy fuckballs

Also to the people asking me resources, I'm actually not too up on it myself, I just recognize that I should be. But a lot of people are recommending /r/personalfinance I agree 100%  Why is it that schools seem to go out of their way to avoid this topic?  
It's not really a difficult subject, and it makes a huge improvement in the quality of living for most people. 


 I have heard the argument that personal finance is something parents should teach their kids, but by looking at some people and their finances, I definitely think it would be best to have kids learn it by someone that know what they are doing.  Well based on some of threads I've seen in /r/personalfinance in the last few years, I think most parents are just as clueless about the topic as their kids, and in some cases downright negligent in instilling bad financial habits. While teaching it in school would be nice, there's also a lot of free websites and services out there for people to learn this stuff if they have the initiative. There's a lot of free websites for pretty much every college course in existence, too, but that doesn't mean anyone is just going to willy-nilly to the computer to do their finances.  And if you don't know finances, what the heck do you search?  "How to manage my finances?"  Then you get a broad range.  A class would help guide kids through a step-by-step.

I'm tired of hearing people say "they should just learn it on their own/parents."  If we (U.S.) weren't in trillions of debt I'd say maybe.  But the fact that a good portion of the country is having problems tells me we might want to add it for a few years and see if it does any good.

inb4-edit: There's many other factors to the countries debt as well, just not going into it. Can you please link me to some of these websites? /r/personalfinance

Check sidebar. I know I got education in high school about compound interest, but I was in law school before I really understood debt vs. equity investments.

I think schools avoid the topic because while they feel comfortable teaching "this is how X works", they get more uncomfortable when the message shifts into "this is how you should do X". And that's where a lot of personal finance education goes.

This discomfort is seen in other areas too, most notably sex ed. Most parents are fine with schools teaching names of body parts, how intercourse works, how various birth control methods work, what diseases have what symptoms, etc., at appropriate ages. (And of course there are *major* disagreements on what "appropriate ages" means.) But if a school starts teaching "So you should only do these sexual activities before you reach a certain age, or before you are engaged or living with someone" or whatever, a lot of people would have a big problem with that. Even if the advice was good advice. Because we generally don't want schools telling our kids how they should live their lives. In this day and age: computers. Most people use computers every single day but know nothing about how they work and can't begin to troubleshoot a problem even with the assistance of google. I was once trialling someone for a part-time retail assistant job and they just did not know anything about computers. Not how to turn it on or log in or even how to properly click on things. It was as difficult to work with as a massive language barrier. At this point the difference in knowledge about computer use is essentially a language barrier because of how common they are and how you use them everywhere. "Ok, could you double click that icon for me?"

"Uhh, double - what? you want me to point the pointy on this picture, and press the mouse twice? the right button or left button?"

Yeah I could see that easily being an issue. At one of my intervews the lady was having an issue with her phone... I proceeded to fix that...  And show her two features of the phone... 

I got the job... [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I work at a hospital. One time this IT guy came to help an older nurse, and with just a few words he perfectly hit the nail on the head.

Nurse: "I hate how everything is on the computer nowadays. I'm just not good at using these things."

IT guy: "This technology has been around for 40 years."

Nurse: Just glares at him.

IT guy: Reboots the 'broken' computer. Everything seems to be working fine. "Enjoy." And he walks away. Hospital IT is the worse possible.

I interned at a hospital as IT fixing computers and making sure everybody could work with their laptops. I had so many calls about the laptops not working, when they either didn't charge them, didn't plug them in, turned off the wifi or just straight up didn't push the power button.

EDIT: I'm not saying doctors/nurses are dumb, hell they're massively smarter than me. Most of them just dont want to do basic troubleshooting. You know, I've never thought about it that way. But yeah. The mid 80's is when PC's really hit the market, right? So people have had ~30 years to "figure it out". Granted, the technology has *advanced*, but not so fast that people shouldn't have kept up.  They're easier to use today than they ever have been. There's no excuse for not knowing how to use a computer today other than willful ignorance.  I think it's more than that though. Oftentimes it's easy to mistake our own fluency and comfort with an area of knowledge with ease of learning. For example, for many of us, the idea of 4+5 is ingrained. But for someone, hypothetically, who's learned math using base-8, it's totally unclear why 4+5 = 9. Foreign languages are tough to teach and to learn, because we have to take individual pieces of information that is shared between languages, and reformulate it. For those of us who have grown up with computers, even starting from our teens, the computer is like a mode of expression - for the most part, we feel comfortable using it, but the degree of nuance to which we understand a computer varies.

Much of the computer-illiterate population, I would say, are 50-55+. Of course, there are individual exceptions, but that puts the advent of computer personal computing in their 20s and 30s.

We take it for granted since we've grown up with electronics, but often it's not willful ignorance for an older person struggling with computers. It really does come down to the fact that at that age, it's more difficult to "get" new things. My co-worker spends a huge amount of time with email and at her workstation - she's 62 - and for someone her age, it is very difficult to incorporate ideas that are inherently new into a pre-established set of brain circuitry.

From what I can see, her understanding of computers is limited to individual functions: "I need to use the computer to send an email"; "I need to open google to search for information."

But when the email suddenly says "download attachment," then follows up with "this file cannot be opened; search for application" - then what she has to do next becomes very unclear to someone who views the computer as a sum of individual functions, rather than as a device that has been layered with software that *enables* functions. Once you understand it as the latter, it becomes clear that the machine does not have the capability to open a certain filetype, and that an additional tool for processing that information is required.

I wouldn't put it down to "willful ignorance." Much of the population *does* want to learn, but as with everything past a certain age, it is very difficult.

**Edit:** Oh my. Maybe I'm also taking something for granted -- I imagine there's a reason /r/talesfromtechsupport is a thing... I don't work in support, but based on the replies I've received, I will concede that there are many, if not a majority, of 20-30 year olds who are technologically incompetent...

**Edit 2**: This got more attention that I thought it would... I will concede my points on: the fact that most tech problems *do*, in fact, stem from willful ignorance; and the fact that most technologically illiterate people are *not* in the older crowd, but rather, are significantly present across *all* populations. 

However, I will not concede on the fact that much of this "willful ignorance" is an issue that stems from the learning and teaching of technology and an incomplete understanding of how the technology behind personal computing actually works... and that, as a corollary, a culture that values the education of flexible problem solving skills and logical reasoning would inherently experience less technological illiteracy. You talk about older people, 50+, who aren't great with computers. I think a lot of the people who work IT or tech support would argue that they get frustrated more often with people in their 30s and even 20s being incompetent. My boyfriend is 30 years old and doesn't know anything about computers. I love him so I'm patient with him but it can be infuriating sometimes that he doesn't spend time to learn it. I don't wanna be the IT person for our family forever lol. 
edit: I just realized he is on Reddit and probably reads my posts. Toki, If you're reading this you know I love you and for every new thing you learn about computers i will give you a blowjob lol. [deleted] [deleted] "I don't understand how something works so it must be useless." "I never took the time to understand this so we should modify our entire system to accommodate for my willful ignorance." This is a scary reality when it's department administration who take that approach. It gums up *everyone's* workflow, and there isn't much you can do about the boss being a moron. My husband works IT for a hospital network.  So many calls either about how they can't access a program (they are on the wrong computer), they can't get a program to work (they already have an instance of it up already), and so on.  He even had a call at 2am once that a doctor couldn't use their voice dictator program...  Because they didn't have their mic plugged in. 

Strange that some of these doctors can do brain surgery yet can't figure out how to plug a damn microphone in.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I think there is "how they work" as in, how to use an operating system, which to click, double click, how to look things up, file manipulation, etc...  and "How they work" as in understanding machine language.

The car equivalent would be having a decent knowledge of the systems and begin able to use the functions of the car and maintain it vs. being a mechanic that can rebuild the engine. Cars and computers make a great analogy. Just think of how many people don't really know how a car works. They are both complex systems that are actually relatively easy to understand in terms of basic use, but get increasingly more difficult the deeper you go. You can mod and build your own. You can tune them up. You can make them faster with little tips and tricks. And most of all, if people just learned a little about them both life would be better.  Yep, when I worked in IT and had to explain something to a client I always ended up using a car analogy as it's somehow easier for people to understand.  

A good one was when a guy phoned up fuming that we had performed a service on his printer and recommended that he replace the drum soon. A week later the printer stopped working because the drum was totally out.  We told him he needed to buy that new drum. He claimed that the drum should be part of the cost of the service and we should have done it and threatened to end his contract etc, I just pointed out that the printer service is the same as a car service - If the garage recommended replacing your wheels during a service you're gonna get charged extra for that.  He suddenly calmed right down and apologised.

People just don't understand somehow. I know perfectly well how to use a computer, I never need to ask anyone's help and when I don't know something a quick google search is almost always enough. 

Yet I have virtually no knowledge of how they actually work. When I go to /r/buildapc I don't understand anything anyone is saying. Building a PC doesn't tell you how they work, it only shows how they're put together, and most of it is just jargon and part names.

If you want to know how computers *work*, take an operating systems course. A computer architecture course, really. Then an operating systems course. I definitely agree. Computers aren't going anywhere anytime soon. We might as well learn how they work and how to fix them when they don't. When I picked electrical engineering and computer science as my majors my parents and their idiot friends tried to convince me to go for medicine since "Computers are a passing fad but we'll always have sick/injured people". They also believed that the Y2K bug was going to destroy the world. &gt; Computers are a passing fad

I don't even. Memory is unreliable.

Everybody knows that they can fail to remember things that happened. Most people don't seem to know that they can [remember things that **didn't** happen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/False_memory). Eyewitness testimony is the lowest form of evidence and pretty much worthless for this reason.  I took my university's first year forensics classes and that was one of the first things my prof taught us.

He had some of his grad students come in to the class about 20 minutes late. They were arguing and shouting, and then left the class in a huff. Then he did a quick survey of the class, asking details like, "What were they talking about?", "What were they wearing?", "Who said what?", etc. and maybe 5 people out of 200 got everything right. How to negotiate effectively. 

It doesn't just apply to your salary, but in small daily interactions with your family, friends and co-workers. And it's not just about 'winning', but rather understanding stakes, evaluating outcomes and knowing when to push, when to compromise and when to give in.

It's an essential part of being a good communicator and having a high emotional intelligence, and applicable in pretty much every career.

EDIT: People are asking for resources on becoming a better negotiator. Oddly, I learned a lot about negotiation in theatre school, but here are some suggestions:

* I enjoyed [this podcast](http://www.slate.com/articles/podcasts/negotiation.html) on negotiation a couple of years ago.
* Several people recommended this popular book on Negotiation, ["Getting to Yes"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Getting_to_Yes).
* People also recommended [this Coursera class on negotiating skills](https://www.coursera.org/learn/negotiation-skills)
 Some people think they can get a good deal by being pushy. The smart ones get a good deal by making the other person want to give them a good deal. It might seem clich, but sun tzu is definitely one of the best reads on the topic. Negotiations are adversarial (but not hostile) and position and maneuvering are key to making the best outcome. Most important is understanding their position versus yours. What guides their perspective, what are their goals and resources?  You know, you could change the first two sentences of your post to be the complete opposite perspective, but the last two sentences would still be true. Watch: 

&gt; It might seem clich, but How to Win Friends and Influence People by Dale Carnegie is definitely one of the best reads on the topic. Negotiations are about compromise, and you can do that most effectively when you are friendly and genuinely interested in the other person's point of view. Most important is understanding their position versus yours. What guides their perspective, what are their goals and resources?
 Sounds like I need to read both then. To give an example of giving someone a good deal I wanted to have a week off for my birthday (I only work 3 days a week). I told the other person I really wanted the week off for my birthday. It was a week before Christmas so go sweeten the deal I told her I'd work Christmas night since I knew she was super into Christmas. I'm young and my house we just have a small dinner so it was no big deal. She acted like I was doing a huge favor and wrote me this massive email saying how nice it was.

Also, just be really polite and point out things you do well. I've got a week off even though it was past the deadline to request it off by pointing out I never call out and very rarely take time off. It's the order and manner in which you present information that makes a deal or doesn't. Do you have any tips for negotiations?
Or how to negotiate?  Think outside the box. Look at what both parties' interests are, rather than just their positions. What do both people *actually want,* that's making them say what they're saying? This is especially useful when what you're negotiating over isn't just money.

There's a parable about two boys who both want an orange. They haggle and eventually compromise, with each boy getting half the orange. The first boy peels his half, throws out the peel and eats the fruit. The second boy peels his half, throws out the fruit and zests the rind to cook with. I agree completely. I feel that too often people only focus on what they want and have a difficult time opening their minds up to another view. It is very important to understand all aspects and stances of the parties involved.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Cooking. It's a basic life skill. I'm always surprised how many people can't even make a basic family meal. Best part about living alone is having the freedom to cook and experiment without judgement. Damn right, having no one to judge me when I try to add Cognac to everything is great. Doesn't always work out, but it's surprisingly tasty in tomato soup. One time I was working on a stir fry and and threw in some IPA I was drinking at the time.  Had to throw the whole pan out. If it were me I still would have eaten it out of stubbornness and shame. I always eat my cooking. It serves as motivation to try harder next time. My dad used to always tell me that when I was growing up. "You learn to cook better by eating your mistakes." When my parents got married, all my mom knew how to do was boil water and microwave burritos. Now she's one of the best cooks I know. All it takes is a little practice, a little creativity, basic understanding of basic ingredients, and how to follow directions on a recipe! Once you have the building blocks all KINDS of possibilities open up. &gt; basic understanding of basic ingredients

You deserve way more upvotes, just for pointing this out. Just understanding a little about what you're cooking and how it cooks opens up so many possibilities in the kitchen. Amen. 

My brother is 21 and asked me the other day "Hey Greg, how do you fry eggs?". Wow. Definitely worth learning some basic cooking techniques!

edit: For everyone wondering he basically turned the fried egg into a weird omelette hybrid by accidently destroying the yolk and turning it over and over. (possibly for sunny side up? who knows)

Here's hoping try number 2 goes more succesfully! - Put pan on stove with the stove on  
- **ADD SOME FUCKING FAT !!!** (butter, oil, bacon grease, duck fat, ~~motor oil~~)
- Crack an egg inside the pan  
- take the egg out  when it looks good  
- if the bottom is burned the pan was too hot, next time when you start the stove, start it lower  
- if there is a lot of shells in your egg, work on your egg-breaking techniques  
- if the egg is raw, let it in the pan longer

The last 3 parts are important because a good way to learn to cook is with trial and error You must work in IT or retail, because including information like "with the stove on" is something you can't just assume any more. Fuck that.  I'm gonna make this a FIBI guide.

* Put pan on stove with the stove on, at medium heat.  If you have some sort of fat in your fridge (bacon fat, pork fat, etc.) use this, otherwise use butter.  Put the size equivalent of two playing dice of butter/fat in your pan so the bottom's greased and will allow the food to slip around.

* Crack an egg into the pan.  Striking the egg on the pan's edge is the classical method, but if you're just starting, you might want to crack it in a bowl beforehand, giving you a chance to fish out pieces of shell.  Strike the wide part of the egg, not the tips.  A firm but controlled strike will allow you to split the shell neatly in half.

* Put the egg in the pan, and set the heat to low.  Fine-tune the temperature so the egg's always heard lightly popping.  Between low and medium-low is the ideal range.

* Once most of the egg's surface is white and only about half its top area is clear, flip the egg over.

* Wait about two minutes, then take the egg out and serve.  As you eat, gauge how you like the egg's consistency and adjust the timing for next time to have it less/more cooked.

EDIT: Reddit really needs a Robot9000.

EDIT2: Hot eggshell on countertop action. that was much nicer than my guide, thanks !

I don't know what is a FIBI guide though, but it sounds more efficient than a "try again if you fail guide" like mine **FIBI:** For Idiots, By an Idiot. I see, thanks Also a small pinch of salt to the frying egg.

If you have never fried an egg, try one with salt and one without, and discover why seasoning makes such a difference to cooking.  &gt; seasoning makes such a difference to cooking

This would be at the top of my list of things people should know. Seasoning isn't just about adding salt or pepper, it's how you bring out certain flavors in things you are cooking as well. It's a very important, usually overlooked, part of cooking. Which is why there is often salt found in sweet pastries and desserts.  It helps bring out and contrast the flavors in a subtle way. [deleted] [deleted] When children are starving in other countries we send rice and beans.    In our own country we have "food deserts", where people buy the majority of their food at convenience stores.  School lunches in these areas should offer tables full of fresh fruit and vegetables, rice, and beans- but instead offer processed ready made foods that do not teach our kids to work with basic ingredients.  Yeah, I think a good understanding of finances and budgeting should come first. I've seen people in line at the convenience store scraping together change to buy toilet paper for $4 a roll when the dollar store forty feet away had it *out front* on sale for .50c. Boggles my damn mind. You think those things are just a fluke, but they're not. Happens all day long at my store. 

As someone who came from a very poor household, I can say that I was never really taught the value of a good sale and cheap stuff. My parents just wanted to keep me away from stressing about their own money troubles. All I saw was that I couldn't get the brand name Cocoa Pebbles for reasons, and it was a huge disappointment. Now that I'm an adult, guess who has two thumbs and never passes up brand name Cocoa Pebbles? Totally agree on off-brand, but TP is an exception since the price premium can be the difference between super soft and sandpaper. I'd recommend upgrading as a life luxury. Or, life-hack, add one sheet of fancy TP on top of discount TP. Best of both worlds.  Sexual education. The number of people who don't know about periods or how to put on a condom is astounding.  one of my coworkers (27 years old) tried to tell me that you couldn't get pregnant if the girl was on top Let me guess, she has a kid? Three [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] This should just be expanded to basic anatomy and physiology. There are way too many people out there that have absolutely no idea how their bodies work and the world is facing huge problems like obesity (no pun intended) because of it. 

Edit: And physiology, my bad. When I was about 24, I bartended with a dunce of a woman in her early thirties. Once, I heard her say that '100 years ago, women only had their period once a year. Its only because of all the chemicals nowadays that a woman has a monthly period.'

She was completely dismissive of anything I said in contradiction because men simply can't know more about female anatomy than women. Actually, they did have their periods less back then, but it was because of malnutrition, not "chemicals". 
 Even today women can stop having them for a bit if they are exercising too much and losing weight without eating enough. It's a common thing among distance runners. EDIT: Not saying you were wrong, just adding a tidbit haha. 
  And being perpetually pregnant or actively breastfeeding cut down on them dramatically, too. Unfortunately, none of these possibilities were figured in her reasoning. I've also heard that she can't get pregnant if she pees immediately afterwards. Let's just ignore the fact that those are two completely different holes... That's for unitary tract infections.  And then there's [this](http://www.thestar.com/yourtoronto/education/2015/05/04/thousands-of-parents-keep-kids-home-from-school-in-sex-ed-protest.html) Which is essentially trying to make that worse.

Edit: Those mentioning first grade is too early, read [Here](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/34x89j/serious_what_are_some_topics_that_everybody/cqz7rj0) To determine if you feel that way about the actual Curriculum and not about the misinformation given to those boycotting Given the comments, there's still obviously some confusion as to what is actually being taught and when. [Here](http://www.edu.gov.on.ca/eng/curriculum/elementary/health1to8.pdf) is the actual document detailing what is being taught and in what grade. Since it's pretty all encompassing and at a daunting 244 pages I've gone and found all the parts actually relating to the sexual health curriculum. In italics I've added the page numbers. In brackets I've added to average ages for each grade. It's important to remember that kids are hitting puberty younger now than ever and entering puberty at nine or ten isn't all that uncommon anymore. Let's begin.

GRADE 1 [5-6 years old] *page 92*

Human Development and Sexual Health

C1.3 Body parts [PS]

Human Development and Sexual Health *page 93*

C1.3 identify body parts, including genitalia (e.g., penis, testicles, vagina, vulva), using correct terminology [PS]

Teacher prompt: We talk about all body parts with respect. Why is it important to know about your own body, and use correct names for the parts of your body?

Student: All parts of my body are a part of me, and I need to know how to take care of and talk about my own body. If Im hurt or need help, and I know the right words, other people will know what Im talking about.

GRADE 2 [6-7] *page 106*

Human Development and Sexual Health

C1.4 Stages of development [PS] 

Human Development and Sexual Health *page 108*

C1.4 outline the basic stages of human development (e.g., infant, child, adolescent, adult, older adult) and related bodily changes, and identify factors that are important for healthy growth and living throughout life [PS]

Teacher prompt: How does your body change as you grow? What helps you to grow and be healthy?

Student: As you grow, you get taller and bigger. Your bones grow. Your muscles grow. You grow faster at some stages than at others and not everyone grows the same amount at the same time. When youre an adult, your body doesnt grow anymore, but it still changes  for example, your skin gets more wrinkled and your hair might turn grey. Things that help make you healthy all through your life are eating well, being active, getting enough sleep, and having people to care for you.

    

Teacher prompt: When we look at growth and change throughout life, we can consider teachings from different cultures, including First Nation, Mtis, and Inuit cultures, about the cycles of birth, life, and death. Different First Nations have different teachings and ceremonies for each life stage, and about growing and changes in roles and responsibilities at each stage. For example, the Anishinabe People teach about seven stages of life, and believe that at each stage, learning traditional teachings, such as the seven grandfather teachings, from family, community, and elders contributes to healthy growth and living.

GRADE 3 [7-8] *page 120*

Human Development and Sexual Health

C1.3 Healthy relationships [IS]

C3.3 Visible, invisible differences, respect [PS, IS]

Human Development and Sexual Health *page 121*

C1.3 identify the characteristics of healthy relationships (e.g., accepting differences, being inclusive, communicating openly, listening, showing mutual respect and caring, being honest) and describe ways of overcoming challenges (e.g., bullying, exclusion, peer pressure, abuse) in a relationship [IS]

Teacher prompt: Consider different types of relationships  with friends, siblings, parents, other adults  and think about the kinds of behaviour that help to make those relationships healthier. What can you do if you are having problems with a relationship? 

Student: I can tell the person how Im feeling, and we can try to work something out, or if we cant solve the problem, we can just say we disagree. We could also try to get advice from someone else.

Human Development and Sexual Health *page 124*

C3.3 describe how visible differences (e.g., skin, hair, and eye colour, facial features, body size and shape, physical aids or different physical abilities, clothing, possessions) and invisible differences (e.g., learning abilities, skills and talents, personal or cultural values and beliefs, gender identity, sexual orientation, family background, personal preferences, allergies and sensitivities) make each person unique, and identify ways of showing respect for differences in others [PS, IS]

Teacher prompt: Sometimes we are different in ways you can see. Sometimes we are different in ways you cannot see  such as how we learn, what we think, and what we are able to do. Give me some examples of things that make each person unique.

Student: We all come from different families. Some students live with two parents. Some live with one parent. Some have two mothers or two fathers. Some live with grandparents or with caregivers. We may come from different cultures. We also have different talents and abilities and different things that we find difficult to do.

Teacher: How can you be a role model and show respect for differences in other people?
Student: I can include others in what I am doing, invite them to join a group, be willing to be a partner with anyone for an activity, and be willing to learn about others.

GRADE 4 [8-9] *page 139*

Human Development and Sexual Health

C1.5 Puberty  changes; emotional, social impact [PS]

C2.4 Puberty  personal hygiene and care [PS]

Human Development and Sexual Health *page 141*

C1.5 describe the physical changes that occur in males and females at puberty (e.g., growth of body hair, breast development, changes in voice and body size, production of body odour, skin changes) and the emotional and social impacts that may result from these changes [PS]

Teacher prompt: During puberty, the male and female bodies undergo many changes. Everyone experiences these changes at different rates and at different times. Increases in weight and body fat are normal. Sometimes it is difficult getting used to the changes that are happening so quickly. Feelings can be much more intense. What are some of the feelings you might have as you start to experience changes with puberty?

Student: Excitement, happiness, embarrassment, confusion, and fear are some of the feelings I might have. It is sometimes hard to recognize what I am feeling and why things feel different.

    

Teacher prompt: What can change socially as you start to develop physically?

Student: Relationships with friends can change, because sometimes people start being interested in different things at different times. Some people start liking others. They want to be more than just friends and become interested in going out. Sometimes people treat you as if you are older than you actually are because of how you look. Sometimes classmates, friends, or family make comments or tease you about the changes.

    

Teacher prompt: Some cultures have traditions associated with puberty that mark the transition from childhood to adulthood. Can you give me some examples of these?

Student: In Judaism, a bar mitzvah or bat mitzvah is celebrated at age thirteen, when a boy or girl comes of age, according to religious law, and can now participate as an adult in the religious life of the community. Many Aboriginal societies have rites of passage that signal that adolescent boys and girls are ready to take on adult roles in society.

Human Development and Sexual Health *page 143*

C2.4 demonstrate an understanding of personal care needs and the application of personal hygienic practices associated with the onset of puberty (e.g., increased importance of regular bathing/showering and regular clothing changes; use of hygiene products; continuing importance of regular hygiene practices, including hand washing, oral health care, and care of prosthetic devices and residual limbs) [PS]

Teacher prompt: Why is it important to shower and change clothes more often as you approach puberty? What other things do you need to think about?

Student: As our bodies change, we perspire more. We should also be aware of spreading germs, and avoid sharing hats, lip gloss, hairbrushes, drinks, or towels.  Thank you for so clearly laying out all of this with your comments! That actually makes me really angry.

"we don't want to teach our kids about the most important part of a living beings life, reproduction" this was yesterday, in Toronto.  WOW.  And ofc no one seems to have read the damn curriculum. Well, they thought they did, when they read a propaganda flier from a religious group. [deleted] [deleted] The fact that a local high school in Tennessee has a day care attached to its campus is proof that sexual education is desperately needed. Statistics. I hated the semester of it I took, but I'm happy for how it made me question sample sizes and how representative they really are. People cite statistics all the time to back up their claims and have no sense for the story behind the numbers. Once you become someone who cares, you realize most stats should be read with appreciation for many contextual caveats. Or that the stat provider is hiding their methodology, so they should be read with great skepticism. I struggle with math, so I dreaded taking statistics in college. I ended up loving the class. The professor was fantastic and really went out of his way to show how the subject was relevant in everyday life. I completely agree with you!  My stats professor opened the first day of class by saying "I used to teach high school AP Calculus. During that time, every single student I sent to take the exam passed with a perfect score." *Shocked looks around the class, then he says:* "Well, ask me how many students I sent to take the exam? .... just one " [deleted] Same here. Statistics for me was the only math that made sense! Testing for significance. Best topic by far.  That's what I appreciated about my LIS (Library Information Science) program. We were taught to question the sources we used. So we couldn't just use whatever random study to support our arguments, we had to actual know something about the source we were using. Since then I've noticed a lot of studies done by unreliable self interest groups. 

I hated Statistics in high school, but it was useful to know.  A ton of statistics are twisted by sensationalism in the media to say or "prove" something that they absolutely do not.

I wouldn't consume news media, unless you personally have time to fact check everything because at least half of it is twisted or verifiably false. Economics, and not just in regards to money, although much of it would come back to that. But just efficient utility in a broad sense.  Agree. Even just learning the basics of Economics gives ordinary/average people a positive concept on how to deal with their daily lives. [deleted] I'd imagine this is true for most advanced topics, I noticed the same thing in Computer Science (programming, specifically). Early in my BS I thought I knew a good amount of stuff, the closer I got to the end of my program the more I discovered I didn't know. The whole time I thought I knew a lot I had no clue how much there was to know.

Now I've been graduated and working in the field for a year and I don't know jack. Compared to someone just starting I know tons, but compared to the amount of information available, I essentially know nothing. Great topic to learn.  Time is a resource and people waste a lot of it being inefficient doing things.  

If I can do a mundane task like wash dishes twice as fast as someone else, but they can fold laundry twice as fast as me, it would make sense that I make them do the laundry because they are more efficient and also, do the dishes so they can practice and get faster. The concept of compound interest. Can make you go broke or make you filthy rich depending on your understanding. Or more broadly, exponential growth.

The difference between 6% and 9% annual growth doesn't really seem like a big deal until you realize if you go out 35 years it's the difference between 7.7x your money or 20.4x your money.  Even people who tend to 'get' numbers think it has less of an effect than it really does cause 9 is only 50% higher than 6.  Over the course of a lifetime though, it means practically triple your money.

But seriously, a 20 something just starting a 401k, pile it all into the S&amp;P500 index and forget about it til your 40.  Over 20 year timeframe's you will get 10% annual on your money.  If the market is in a down period when you turn 40, just wait it out for the recovery and diversify at some point before 45 to peel back to appropriate risk.

You can build a serious 401k with very modest input before 50 this way and be so far ahead of the curve your risk tolerance and timing of the markets stop being even a thing. When I got my first real job after college I put 15% in my 401k on day one.  That way I never got used to having that extra money.  I just live like I make 15% less than I do.  The reward is that, at 28, im about to break 100k in my 401k (I started working here when I was 25) Your doing better than me.  I started at 6% cause that was matching, and each year when I get my raise I bump it up 1%.  With the cost of living I'm up to 11% (17% counting the matching).  I'm 27 and it's at 40k.  Feels pretty good tbh.  Wish I would have started working a year or two earlier like you did cause I would have had way more money for 2012-2013 (made 47% that year in stocks).

But seriously, with matching and pre-tax...I have 40k essentially in the bank, and I would have seen less than 10k of that after taxes.  It's literally the most stupid thing our generation is doing, is not finding a way to at least get their matching.  You are voluntarily taking a pay cut. Its a nice pick me up when I am really depressed at work, just go and check my 401k balance and it makes me a little bit happier Here's a brilliant video on the topic: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sI1C9DyIi_8 How the government within your own country works and what the general political climate is like. I've met far too many adults who are way too apathetic when it comes to politics. This is how shitty laws get passed or pushed through. And it also enables the politicians who have more funding/popularity thus turning it into a popularity contest and which politician can smear the other the most. There's a reason for that, it's far easier (in part due to greater media access) to gain reelection through advertising yourself as the more reliable and trustworthy party than it is to distinguish your policies from the running opponents. Therefore, an understanding of how the media works should also be very important. "The media doesn't tell you what to think, but it tells you exactly what to think about" In addition, I also think this is why politicians tend to not focus on the interests of the young as much. Since they know that older people are more interested and more likely to vote they can basically focus on their needs a lot more, resulting in them thinking they can get away with things such as the recent rise of tuition fees in England (seriously, fuck that shit man. If you're old enough, go vote. Even if who you're voting for doesn't win at least it impacts the turnout statistics so they know they need to cater to your demographic. It's essentially a duty). Greatly agree. I would add "and know the background for the government structures in your country". Commonly a lot of thought went into forming the governmental structures and it is very useful to know what they viewed as aims and risks. To add to that. Local politics. Know whats going on in your city, county, and state. Whats happening there is more likely to have an impact on you and more quickly than anything at the national level. Vote turnout for local votes is notoriously low for just about anywhere. Couldn't agree more. It's so frustrating when you hear people say that the President can make laws, pass laws, and overrule the Supreme Court and rail the President when Congress is the one stuck in the mud.

People who don't care about politics have just as much political say as someone who does and that's unsettling. It's like the person who only votes Red or Blue on the ballot.  People should understand Confirmation Bias, just because you have anecdotal experience does not give validity to your argument, it's not necessarily representative.   Along that line learn to recognize learned helplessness. Just because you did something bad the first few times doesn't mean you'll do it the same the next dozen. Especially true in school. Manners. 
A little politeness goes a long way. People are amazed when my 2 year old daughter says 'Please' and 'Thank you'. Mind you, it's not all the time (because she's 2 years old!) but she says it more than the 50+ year olds I work with How to replace a toilet.
How to fix a clogged drain.
Plumbing is no joke, and it will save you around 5k or so over the course of your 20s if you learn how to do it at 18. Respect, trust me. Many people can't grasp the fact that you can't just be a total dipshit to anyone you want. Agreed. People need to understand the difference between respecting an indavidual and respecting their position. You don't just insult your teacher for example, like it or not they are serving an important purpose. That doesn't mean you need to respect them as an individual, that respect has to be earned. Although you should afford everyone the basic respect any human being deserves.

Also be polite regardless of respect. It only reflects poorly on you if you're not. So many people don't seem to realize that you can not respect someone but still be polite to them.  

I try and be polite to everyone, whether I respect them or not.  Mental illness. Most people are familiar with some form of it but few know enough about it to truly recognise it in themselves or others. You dont need to study the DSM. Even professional psychologists have failed to recognise their own illnesses, but considering around 1 in 4 will experience some form of it, its pretty worrying theres so little public awareness/access to that sort of information. Credit  Nutrition/healthy eating  debt and the deficit. Many people dont understand that gouverments have debts for a reason. Or that government debts are different than personal debts.  Or that the national debt and the national deficit are two completely different things. [Game theory.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nM3rTU927io&amp;list=PL8626D1DED5B1C405) The ability to assess risk vs reward in an uncertain situation.

[Debate.](https://www.youtube.com/user/IntelligenceSquared) The ability to form arguments and defend those arguments from attack.

[Philosophy.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mUHYlyacMmA&amp;list=PLE0LBYS7lXxPzNcpYspgF7dPmZlQ_oy9Y) The ability to form ideas on solid foundations and understand what is and is not a reasonable position.

Edit: to add links I identify with your sentiment on debating. In real life, arguments get boiled down to who can interrupt the other and who can speak louder.  But nothing pisses off a bad arguer more than a good arguer.  Ah but the old saying rings true: *Arguing with idiots is like playing chess with a pigeon, no matter how good you are at chess the pigeon is just going to knock over the pieces, crap on the board, and strut around like it is victorious.* Then fly back to its pigeon friends and tell them all about its victory over the evil doer.  And then the childish japes are directed at the intellectual. How else will pigeons feel superior? I prefer the saying: "arguing with idiots is like fighting with a pig, you both are gonna roll around in shit, but the pig kinda likes it."  I always know somebody is a good arguing when they stay calm during the whole argument. Throws me off my game.  No matter how good a debater you are, you can't do anything if you can't speak, after all.  Exactly. Arguing with an irrational and ill-mannered person is fruitless and you might as well keep your thoughts to yourself.  I feel like a lot of those broadly fall under "logical thinking". I think if High School students took an intro to formal logic for a year it would improve all those areas.  My school has that. It's a mandatory class known as the "Theory of Knowledge." We *learn about knowledge systems and ways of knowing (sense perception, reason, faith, etc.) Most people think it's useless, but it's had a *noticeable *effect on the student population.

edit: for spelling. And yes, my phone has terrible auto correct. (Or maybe I just have terrible typing abilities...)

Also, hello fellow IBers! I had to Google "noticanele" to make sure it was a typo and not some philosophy term I never heard before. IB? We had that as well. When I took it I thought it was useless but looking back I really appreciate the class &gt; Debate. The ability to form arguments and defend those arguments from attack

Not only this, but you can't have a good conversation with someone with an opposing view. People just get too angry, they don't accept that someone else could even *think* differently. 
 I don't know that anyone will see this. How to set and enforce boundaries around things that are important to you. So many people wind up in crap relationships because they don't know how to say no when they need to. Knowing what your non-negotiables are, and what will require you backing off, is crucial to finding a healthy relationship.    Basic logic and critical thinking Three logicians walk into a bar. The bartender asks "Do you all want beer?" The first logician says "I don't know".  The second logician says "I don't know".  The third logician says "Yes!"  Etymology- understanding the roots of words helps you better understand its meaning and learn foreign languages quicker Manners. They go a long way and take little to no effort. How Vaccines work A basic understanding of cars. 

I know too many people who don't know how to change the oil, fill the radiator, change a tire - let alone even bother to check these things. Also how their particular car works, and its features.  I think most people would be surprised to find that almost any modern car (2006 or so or newer) can perform a self diagnostic check and give you an error code at the least.  You don't need to go to AutoZone to figure out what that check engine light means, your car and Google might be able to help you narrow it down.   My policy on cars is that you should know how to fix the stuff that might leave you suddenly screwed (tires, wipers, lights, etc.) and know how to check the stuff that creeps up on you (oil, brakes, etc.).

I *could* change my oil but it's such a pain in the ass I'd rather let somebody else do it.

 

Edit: Since it keeps coming up... I am quite capable of changing oil myself, I have done it. BUT, I live way the hell out of town and don't feel like making a trip to dispose of used oil, I'm not in the mood to store said oil until I have time to get rid of it and I'm quite content paying whatever money I'd save to have someone else worry about all that crap. evolution.  please just very very BASIC.  I am really tired of people going on rants and arguing that there is no way we came from monkeys.  They are so passionate about that issue and no one is even fucking saying we came from monkeys.

hint: we shared a common ancestor with monkeys.  we did not evolve from monkeys. as a biology major, the "evolution is not real because there are still monkeys" argument hurts me deeply. Maybe its just the engineer in me, but basic mechanics.  If you know how mechanical things interact then you can solve a crap ton of issues that will be heading your way.  It will save you a bunch of money fixing your own things.  With an understanding of basic mechanics combined with the internet, you'll be able to fix just about anything, though it may take you a while. antibiotic resistance Medicine or any health related subject. You never know, might come in handy if someone is having a medical emergency and they can't reach the hospital in time. Basic maths, like mental arithmetics. But also, maybe even more important, sex. Where do babies come from, how does that all work? How can you prevent becoming pregnant? What are some common misconceptions? What are STD's? Why is it important to wear a condom? Mental health issues: you can't just "snap" out of depression or "cheer up, it will get better." I almost wish there was a safe depressant that could induce the feelings of depression in a controlled environment for the families of someone that suffers from depression. 

I have a friend who's little sister has symptoms of depression and bi-polar. And my friend constantly thinks shes being a dramatic teen when in reality she has no control over her mind. I wish there were a way to make a tangible experience for my friend to empathize with her sister.  "Critical Thinking" is rather important to understanding every major issue that comes up in your life. Look at things from the other perspective, see what the motives are. Psychology, economics, politics and a language other than your first  I wanna learn how to say chocolate cake in all the popular languages. Fuck those other languages they can eat lunch by themselves.   

 



chokoladekage

chocoladetaart

suklaakakku

gteau au chocolat

Schokoladenkuchen

torta al cioccolato



 

ciasto czekoladowe

 

pastel de chocolate

ikolatal kek

 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] chocolade cake is more commonly used here in Belgium (chocoladetaart is something different), don't know about Netherlands. (but thanks for representing Dutch as a popular language =) ) You're missing the 6^th most spoken language in the world.

Bolo de chocolate, feel free to add it. Personal Finance. 2008 crisis could have been mitigated if people realized that they can't pay for a $500,000 dollar house on a $60,000 a year salary. 

Edit: lots of people are pointing out that banks also are to blame for allowing these sub-prime loans to even happen or rating the securities as low risk when they were anything but. All this is is absolutely true.   Lol wut do you mean you could pay it off in 8.333 years, that's like no time at all. "It is well enough that people of the nation do not understand our banking and monetary system, for if they did, I believe there would be a revolution before tomorrow morning." - Henry Ford. 
I think most people don't realize how unfair and retarded our political and economical system is. I think it would be very beneficial for human beings to know more about it, and get involved.
 Climate change

Contrary to what congressmen will tell you, you don't need to be a scientist to have a fundamental understanding of global warming. The Internet.

For Gods sake. Please learn how the Internet works. Everybody needs to start planting dandelions in their neighbors yard. I have a shit load of those in my yard. I've been putting down weed killer the past few years, but I won't this year. My daughters like the flowers, and the bees don't bother us. I've been reading more about bee colony collapse, and I think not competing with my neighbor to have the greenest grass is probably the way to go.  Honestly in this California drought, I'm questioning if I want to keep my lawn. It's a waste of water to maintain an area that could have a couple flowers and a nice walkway. Also no need for roundup or other pesticides  Yes rip it out! Get some succulents and plant flowers! You will be saving money on utilities, helping pollinate, and conserving water. If you really like grass you can also always get clump grasses that are native to California and require very little water if you rip it out, compost it or use it for mulch instead of throwing the old grass away Our HOA will not let us :( This has been legally challenged in CA!  

http://www.consumeraffairs.com/news/california-law-protects-drought-stricken-homeowners-from-hoas-072314.html

&gt; On Monday, July 21, Governor Jerry Brown signed AB2100 into law, prohibiting HOAs from penalizing homeowners for brown lawns during established drought conditions. However, this new law applies only to HOAs in the state, not city governments, some of which still require lawns to look healthy and green or be in healthy green condition. Jesus governments. A law requiring green grass? &gt;A married couple in Glendora faced a ridiculous legal Catch-22 the same day the statewide watering restrictions went into effect: California would fine them $500 if they watered their lawn, and Glendora would fine them $500 if their lawn stayed brown.


sounds like an HOA to me.

My HOA is equally insane. My neighborhood has a "green" contest each year where the homeowners who have the most efficient homes (how they judge this i dont know) win some recognition of some sort and the oppurtunity to get a brick put in their (slab) driveway commemorating such an achievement. Needless to say there are homes with solar inverters feeding back into the city grid (for a 1:1 kWh credit), most construction is blown cellulose insulation, double paned windows etc.


Anyway, so a fried at the local University (who also employs me) is surplussing a bunch of solar panels. My house is aligned so that the south side would get great sun 95% of the time. So i score part of these panels in the auction and apply with our architectural review committee to allow me to put them on my roof. I was denied because my house is on a hill and you could see the panels from about 3/4 a mile away and the panels would "stick out", especially from the golf course. 


TL:DR - neighborhood that has an annual "going green" showcase/feature contest thing denies my request for solar panels because how how visible they would be....... You can still compete!  Hand pull weeds like dandelions and take up dead spots in your lawn-- the grass will fill in on its own with time. Do lawn maintenance through cultural means, meaning no use of chemicals or anything like that. 

Then diversify and increase your landscape around the yard. Plant many different flowers that bloom at different times for the bees. You can make a decision to have a lush, weed free lawn AND bee friendly property! If you just yank the weed and don't get the root it'll just come back,  make sure to get a tool for deeper weeds.  

A dandelion fork will cover most common weeds, and won't damage your yard much, if at all, if you use it correctly.
 Yep I support your cause  Own some hives! My family has 5 and they're pretty easy to take care of (and you get all the free honey you could want). The only trouble is it takes some investing to get started. I think people should look into their local apiary societies and check out a meeting or two, find a mentor, and learn some of the ins and outs so you can see if it interests you enough to keep it up.  It is much easier to just ask someone else to save them for you. *opens up thread on bees*

**"The bees are dying out. But you can save them! Citizen, go do something good today! For the bees! For America! For the future! Just go to your local**

"Meh" *closes laptop* *Adopt a bee today.* *In the arms of the angel* Sad puppy dog, aww. Sad kitty, d'awww. 

Sad... bee? Abused bee? One winged, half-smashed, in the corner of a kennel, trembling with a broken stinger. Poor lil guy... Like [this](http://youtu.be/O4e-lekAysw) but with wings Omg that's amazing.  http://www.adoptahoneybee.com/ Well hell, it's legit. Just get one bee, it's easier. That's my joke, haha By the Nines To be fair, all you need to do is plant some flowers near your hideout and to be sure to kite the bees after collecting the honey until they de-aggro. And then you're set to make taffee and honey ham to get you through the winter. Your usage of terms 'kite' and 'deaggro' made me question your sincerity. He's talking about Don't Starve, a popular roguelike-like survival game.  Making bee boxes and harvesting honey is a popular, almost gamebreakingly easy strategy to survive.

BRB playing all night Don't bees need the honey?  Keeper of the Bees here. (I wish that were a title...it is now.) I've had an apiary for quite a few years, starting it all from a single colony as a project of interest. Bees do not require all the honey they produce; far from it in fact. They massively overproduce what they will need to survive through Winter, as insurance against the uncertainty of holding out. Now though, we know exactly what they need, and can attend to that, ensuring they survive the winter just fine. Taking even upwards of 80% of the produced honey in some cases, is reasonable; local climates play a large part in this.

Having a benevolent sapient overlord guide the destiny of your family does have its perks after all. That last sentence makes me want to have a bee mod for Crusader Kings 2. "Serve the hive"? Isn't that the plot of Starcraft2? &gt; Having a benevolent sapient overlord guide the destiny of your family does have its perks after all.

That's what I keep telling my wife! Domesticated honeybees are selectively bred to produce too much. What if I'm scared of bees? Their only defense mechanism kills them, so they aren't that aggressive unless you step on one or mess with the hive. They're actually pretty cute and fuzzy, try petting one lightly with your finger when it's on a flower. It will completely ignore you. I don't know whether to trust you or not. If you have a humming bird feeder, you may also find honey bees attracted to it. You can hold your hand below it, have them crawl on your hand, pet them, move them. They are incredibly docile. 

The only two real exceptions that I have ever seen

1. Anger the queen and honey bees nearby her may sting to get you away from her. She is in the hive, so unless you are poking her in her hive, you are safe.

2. Crush a honey bee. In this case it is still not choosing to sting you. It is physics. It will die not wanting to sting you, but have no choice.

You can be mean to a honey bee and it generally will not sting you. A lot of bumble bee's are just as docile, but they may buzz you to scare you away if they are mad. Bumble bees may bite if trapped.


Wasps, yellow jackets, etc. will sting you because you are there. They may land and sting you for fun. They may sting and bite at the same time, because fuck you. They are evil and hate everything.


Handy guide to bee [Bros and Not Bros](https://i.imgur.com/gexuF.jpg).

[Wasp's sole purpose](http://i.imgur.com/qtXQ0Ay.jpg).

Edit: Not a bee expert. Was just deathly afraid of them, and now far less afraid. Removed mud-daubers from asshole list. Personal experiences clouded my judgment. You're meant to stay still? I run like the wind when I see one. Havent been stung yet. Am 26yo and slightly ashamed I got stung for the first time last year... trust me you dont want to get stung. I was stung 5 times in one month last year in the same damn spot in my barn (hurts like hell but I dealt with it to get the hay and feed the cats). 5th one got me a ride to Benadryl Land as it gave me a nasty allergic reaction. Now I get to carry an epipen. You feed your cats hay?  They probably do eat it. But no. Hay for the horses. The cats climb the ladder to the second floor of the barn and we feed them up there. We had a lot of hornets/wasps up there last summer but we sprayed them so much they dispersed and are now replaced with honey bees, so we let those guys live. I thought that last sentence was gonna end with gun, not epipen. [deleted] I only have one question, HOW? I was in severe pain from 1 wasp sting [deleted] Instead of being slightly ashamed, just tell people you are allergic. Even the less informed know that a bee sting to an allergic person can kill them, and thus people are a little less judgmental when you scream like a girl and run. 

Source: screams like a girl and runs. But when you get stung you need to convince everyone not to stab you with epinephrine  Don't worry, you'll forget this tomorrow and be dead within the year.  Live it up, buddy! [Wasp anatomy]( http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-ehOwFce8Vxk/UBnOfabY_dI/AAAAAAAAAu4/a6tlrWriNr0/s640/anatomy+of+a+wasp.png) indignant knees! Honeybees are pretty much holy to me. They really are gentle and don't want to sting. Posted this story elsewhere, but I'll repost here:

I have a poem, somewhere, that I wrote about this memory. I don't have it committed to memory, and I'd like to do it justice, so I'll just tell the story if that's alright.

Anybody who knows me in real life knows that I love insects and spiders. I have since I was little; I used to read everything I could about them. I particularly loved reading about social insects, like bees and ants...but, when I was about 4 or 5, I was TERRIFIED of bees. I nearly ran off the side of a mountain while we were hiking because a bumblebee was hovering around me.

Now at the time my dad was flat broke. He and my mom were going through a divorce, and he'd just gotten laid off, but he saw me every weekend. We didn't do much--we'd just walk around, really--but he made it a point to spend every weekend with me. (I loved him for that. I still do.) Well, he knew how much I loved learning about bees...but didn't understand why I was so afraid.

The favorite memory I have of my father is when I was about five years old and we went to a nearby school. The school wasn't much to see, really: just a couple buildings and a baseball field. It was spring, and the outfield was covered completely in clover flowers. And, when we got close to the outfield, I saw nearly every flower had a honeybee on it.

I don't know how he did it, but my dad got me to walk out onto the field with him. We walked into the center of the field, and then he kneeled down and started gently brushing bees off of the flowers. When there was enough space he sat down, then cleared off enough room for me to sit down. I was absolutely terrified, but I sat down and listened to him talk.

After a while, I realized the field was humming, almost singing, because of the honeybees. I stopped twitching whenever one of them touched me. I watched my dad, again and again, reach down and let a few honeybees climb onto his hand. After a little while I did the same thing. It taught me that just because something can hurt you, doesn't mean it will. And that just because something is scary doesn't mean it's evil.

I've gone back to the field every few years, even took a few naps on it during the summer. The field's tiny. The school's even smaller. But in my mind it's endless, and I'll never forget the bees in my father's hands. Don't you dare talk dirty about mud daubers! Their only job is to make cool homes out of dirt and eat black widow spiders I'm actually picturing you as a human-sized flying insect who can use a computer. And you're all like, "hey, that's racist!"

Please tell me it's true, because that would be great. Yeah. Nice try mud dauber  Now you listen here motherfucker, I believed you until I went to the [Wikipedia page](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mud_dauber) and read that mud daubers have caused MULTIPLE airplane crashes that have killed everyone on board. Your cover is blown, you wasp sympathizer scum, and you have been reported to the Department of Homeland Security. See you in hell. Wasps are important! They're not useless, otherwise they would not be alive, right?! Funny thing is, wasp have a purpose. Exterminate other species in case their numbers get too high for the local ecosystem. Basically they're like the reapers from Mass Effect, eradicating any "too intelligent" life form periodically to let lesser species proliferate freely!

Without wasps we would be overrun with insect pests! Hornets and paper wasps prey on other insects, and help keep pest insect populations under control. Paper wasps carry caterpillars and leaf beetle larvae back to their nests to feed their growing young. Hornets provision their nests with all manner of live insects to sate the appetites of their developing larvae. It takes a lot of bugs to feed a hungry brood. Both hornets and paper wasps provide vital pest control services. &gt; Wasps are important! They're not useless

I don't doubt that. But their purpose includes trying to eat the flesh on my face... while it is still attached and living.

Yes, they have a purpose. Like mosquitoes, ticks, bears, poison oak, and a lot of other nature I avoid while hiking and camping.  Actually, I remember reading somewhere that ecologists pretty much agree that there would be no negative side-effects to exterminating mosquitoes.

[Behold](http://www.nature.com/news/2010/100721/full/466432a.html)

--

Edit: Screwit, I'm making the edit. Here listen to this RadioLab podcast, which is brilliant and probably more credible than that article up there that I spent like 5 minutes of googling to find. www.radiolab.org/story/kill-em-all/ **FUCK EM!** Pricks I never had an issue with any of these guys.  The only time I got stung was when my car got trapped under an old boat my neighbors had in their yard.  It was swarming with yellow jackets and little 12 year old me went into savior mode to get my cat despite that.  Only got stung once.  It sucked but it was fine in an hour or so and I was playing outside again soon enough.  I know it could have been a LOT worse.  

I always just stay still of one comes by me.  I've had wasps and yellow jackets land in me, walk around, and leave.  As long as they're not in the house, they dont bother me.  

I did have a bunch of people whine that I was saving a bumble bee one about a year ago.  My sister and I took my mom to the botanical gardens in new york and there was a bee on the ground so I picked it up,  carried it around with me until it felt better (I didn't have anything to let it drink sadly)  and then put it on a flower.  I figured I'd is going to die, die in a flower and not stomped on by people.  Other patrons were actually commenting on his disgusting I was for touching it and saving a pest.  

Bitch we're in a giant ass garden.  Do you not expect bees or...?  :/  &gt; my car got trapped under an old boat my neighbors had in their yard. It was swarming with yellow jackets and little 12 year old me went into savior mode to get my cat despite that. 

I'm hoping you chose not to proofread your comment or else I have a lot of questions... Your typos created some very interesting visuals in my imagination. 

Picturing you somehow trapping your CAR under your neighbor's boat....and picturing a wasp walking around IN you.

Good times.
 I have a huge nest of red hornets somewhere inside the roof of my house (all extermination attempts have failed) and our house is in no way bug free.  This may be one of those situations where you need to nuke the site from orbit You know, it is hard to feel sympathetic for something when the best comparison you could find is "they are like that unfeeling AI specifically created to inflict genocide onto the galaxy!"  

Still though, given the choice, I think I would prefer the reapers. My next door neighbor had 8 hives in his backyard when I was a kid.  It was seven years of living there before I got stung once.  Even then, it only happened because I stepped on the bee and it got between my toes.  My neighbor would open their hives barehanded to take out frames to show me.  Bees aren't scary.  Wasps and hornets are scary. Depends on the bee. Go fondle some Africanized bees and tell me they aren't scary  African bees, no problem.  Aficanized honey bees, big problem. do not do that to something that is not a bee. such as a yellowjacket or a hornet. Make sure it is fucking FUZZY do you hear me? It's true. The stingers are barbed so when they try to take off after a sting it disembowels them.  It's a pretty solid incentive to not sting if it can be avoided. Yeah, but how do *they* know that? How do dogs know to pee with one leg up?

THEY JUST DO, MAN Why's boobs good?  They don't. They just don't feel stingy unless you really piss them off. Hive that produce drones that sting for minor annoyances spend more energy replacing dead drones instead of growing and being successful. 

The result is that hives that balance their desire to sting with the actual honey-preserving utility of stinging (that is, they only sting just enough to improve the success of the hive) are the most common. Honestly, I'm a bit confused as to evolution managed to keep that trait. Like, imagine how ridiculous life would be for if (for example) every time we tried to punch/hit/kicked an enemy, our limbs fell off.  Since only the queen reproduces, there probably isn't much selective pressure against it My understanding is that their stingers do just fine when fighting with other insects/bugs.  They wouldn't typically go after things that have skin. The ones that are stinging you don't reproduce.

The queen is the sole reproducer and carries the genetic code for the entire hive. So basically whatever happens to the bees doesn't really matter. That's the reason they will fight to the death if you so much as look at the queen. 

Same with ants. &gt;go now my son, pet the bees Naw it's true.  Short of physically grabbing a honey bee, it's darn near impossible to get them into aggressive mode unless you dick around with their hive.  You can even stand right in front in their landing zone and they'll all crash into you but not bother to sting you. You should test the theory, then get back to us on how it went. Don't worry, we'll wait.  Instructions unclear. Currently experiencing anaphylaxis. Quick go bungee jump guys i need help im hangin up side dpwn and my nose is running rly bad and my skin is itching i am near Nope it's true. I pet bumblebees all the time /r/bumblebro  I've been stung by a bee for less then petting it. But usually they are very docile and owning a hive is pretty safe, you just have to wear a suit when you mess with the hive, otherwise just check your soda before drinking it.  from what I understand, their aggression (or lack there of) actually has nothing to do with them dying after they sting us. the animals that they are used to stinging (rodents and such) actually have thinner skin than us, so the bee does not die after stinging them. they have no idea they're going to die when they sting us until it's too late. "Aww fuck! Is that my sting?! Is that... is that my fuckin insides attached to my sting?!? FUCK!" I think mammal skin is what kills them, they can sting other insects without dying. Well that is fucking awesome to hear, because we humans don't have much in the way of natural defenses like claws and tusks and shit. But bees, oh man, my epidermis will FUCK those little buggers up and knowing that gives me that extra edge of confidence when I strut my stuff, especially when I see them girls sporting black and yellow bikinis What if it don't bee like it is but it do? That was my parents solution! My mom felt so bad about the plight if bees that they took it up as a hobby! They have several hives and tons of honey!  Even [famous people](http://imgur.com/PkAW497) keep bees for personal use! I love this gif so much when she struts and waves at the end there.... I lose it! Beekeeper here.  I am just starting out my own bee business, and I worked commercially for pest control companies, beekeeping companies, and an insectary.  Here is just my take.  Lets put down the pitchforks, and address the common man.  Lets see what we can REALLY do.  It all comes down to being a good steward of the earth.  

First lets talk about what NOT to do.  Don't keep bees.  Keep them if you really want to.  Keep them if you will do your best to treat them well and keep them healthy, and put them down if you have to.  A hive is an expensive and challenging investment.  Bees sting, don't always produce honey, and they aren't right for every situation.  Not everyone can have bees, and that is ok.  There are three people in my county who manage more bees than everyone else in the county combined.  (Honestly one in particular probably has more than everyone combined.)  There is nothing wrong with leaving it up to the experts.

Second, pesticides are essential.  Don't try to eliminate them.  We need them.  In your own world use only what you have to, and when you have to use it read the label.  Don't use more than you have to.  Most pesticides are pretty bee safe.  Try not to poison plants during a bloom.  Try not to spray hives.

On that note if you get bees, Lets talk about what you CAN do.  If you need bees removed, call a beekeeper and pay him.  Beekeeping is expensive.  Getting stung and working all day isn't always the best hobby.  If you pay a beekeeper you not only help the beekeeper to put food on the table, but you also give the bees a chance.  Bees don't always stay after removals.  To be honest about 50% of my removals stay.  Don't assume he is getting free bees.  The biggest benefit to you is that they remove everything comb and all, and a good beekeeper will even try to keep the bees from coming back.  Pest control companies spray the hive and leave the dead bees, wax, and honey there for you to deal with.  Sometimes that means paying another guy to come out and clean it up.  A good beekeeper costs more than a spray, but less than a spray and wax/honey removal.  

As far as what EVERYONE can do...and what they can REALLY do...just be a good steward.  Try to eat a little less meat, and a little more fruit and veggies.  It is good for you, and all that corn is taking up valuable forage areas for the bees.  Plant some damn plants in your yard and garden.  Grass does literally nothing for anyone.  Grow some fruits and veggies.  Grow some pretty flowers.  Grow SOMETHING.  Not only is it extremely rewarding in other ways, but it also gives bees something to eat.

Try to use a little less wood and paper.  Save the bee forage areas a tree or two in your lifetime.  Try to waste a little less water, and just overall be a good person to the planet.  It turns out when you take care of it everything in it does a little better...including us.

On a more selfish note pay your local beekeepers.  Not everyone can keep bees.  It is hard, expensive, and sometimes painful work.  Pay a local beekeeper for honey, wax, pollen, and propolis.  You will be amazed how much better that honey is than anything you have ever had.  My honey is real.  It crystallizes.  My own dad once asked me "why does your honey do that?"  "It is real,"  I told him.  If your honey has never crystallized that says a lot about where it came from.  If you are interested in beekeeping see if they will sell you some bees or queens.  It keeps them in business, helps them get rid of their surplus stock, and gets you locally adapted kick butt bees.  If you are a farmer, find a local guy to pollinate your crops.  A big beekeeping company likes to keep the money rolling.  A small beekeeping company will thank you eternally for every penny.  

In the end there are two things you are trying to save.  The bees, and the people that dedicate their lives to raising them.  

tl;dr:  Be good to the earth, make yourself a yummy garden, and buy some local honey. Plant bee friendly plants.

Stop spraying chemicals on your lawn/trees/bushes.

Buy locally produced honey.

Become a beekeeper. &gt;Buy locally produced honey.

I'm not familiar with this, how does that help? 
 Rather than buying honey that comes from Brazil or somewhere in Europe, by buying local you'll increase the need for local honey which will mean existing beekeepers will increase the amount of hives they have. 

And normally what you buy in the shops is a blend of honey from loads of different countries that's been heated and blended which will affect the taste whereas local honey, especially from small scale keepers, will all have the same flavour characteristics as it will have been collected from the same type of flowers by the bees. And, since it is from the local plants, it can *help* your allergies. You'll still have allergic reactions if you already get them, but they will be somewhat lessened. 

----

Edit:

Pollen allergies. Stay away from bees if you are allergic to bees.  I'm assuming you mean pollen allergies, and not bee allergies? I'd like the point out the insanity that is Los Angeles. It's illegal to bee a "backyard beekeeper" and the city exterminates wild bees! Here's an article from a few years ago from [Curbed](http://la.curbed.com/archives/2013/10/why_isnt_backyard_beekeeping_legal_in_los_angeles_yet.php) Misread this as "Plant more bees"

I was wondering if that's where bees come from. [deleted] On the flowering bit, I have [this fucking guy](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Campsis_radicans) planted all over my yard. The bees love it ever so much, and it takes almost no care at all to maintain. In fact, it can be a little invasive, so it's perfect for a new gardener. 

*Bonus:* the humming birds eat that shit up too! It's like living in a wilderness paradise on a .2 plot of suburban back yard. &gt; The vigor of the trumpet vine should not be underestimated. Ruthless pruning is recommended.

I love it when wikipedia has this sort of tone. Nothing is as wonderful as the Wikipedia article on [humans.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human) It was written when Wiki first because self aware.

(Also, "least concern." Heh.) Bees love this for sure.

Source - went to pick a pretty flower for my girl...bee flew out.  Peed a little. I had some mason bees. They had these little aprons and were highly ritualistic. Does this outsider mock our order? 

EDIT: All humor aside, my grandfather was a mason. Pretty normal dude....as far as I could tell. Who controls the British crown?

Who keeps the metric system down?

We do, we do! Who keeps Atlantis off the maps?


Who keeps the Martians under wraps?


We do, we do!
 Who holds back the electric car?

Who makes Steve Gutenberg a star?

We do, we do! Who robs cave fish of their sight?

Who rigs every Oscar night?

We do, we dooooooo! It's a bitch to clean up all the little pyramids they leave all over your lawn too.  Don't even get me started on Illuminati Bees. Those lady bugs generally aren't farmed but collected from the wild. Don't buy them, you're depriving somewhere else of part of their natural population, and easing the spread of lady bug diseases around the country. [deleted] IDK enough about lacewings, but the mantid eggcases are generally from a Chinese species, rather than native ones. Displacement and competition for ecological niches can be an issue, but IDK how that ranks in comparison to the damage done by pesticides. This shit can often be hard to suss out, sadly.  Flowers flower holy shit are you a wizard. [deleted] #1 is so important. Monoculture is destroying bees' habitats and creating food deserts for them. Add some pesticides and it's impressive so many are still alive.

Another point is it's not just honey bees that are dying and other bees are incredibly important as well. Plants have been relying on them for so long for pollination. What if I have really bad allergies? Is there a way I can still help? I don't use pesticides, but I still want to do something like #1, I really like planting, it's just the whole allergy problem. [deleted] &gt; Limit the use of pesticide

Yes

Pesticide should be the tool of last resort, only to be used if an insect problem is TOTALLY out of control

Insects are a part of nature, some are beneficial, some are harmful

When nature is in balance, there is a balance between predators and prey

The first question that should be asked when a system gets out of balance is.."where are the predators?"

Sometimes, feeding, breeding or otherwise encouraging predators is the best solution I set my friend's yard up to pesticide free by putting out bird feed (not just seed but suet too) and encouraging them to move in. We did have to double down and spray some bushes that had been poorly managed previously, but we had about 12 families of birds.

No wasps. No spiders. No beetles. No box elders. NO PROBLEMS.

I'm  planning on doing the same thing when I start living in my house fully time.  And moving some bats in. Because well, who doesn't need bats. Keep up the financial demand for bees to be protected by eating your honey regularly.

 Nice try, pooh Bees have more important uses than honey-making. Something like 75% of agriculturally-important crops require pollinators. Then again, maybe we can hire Mexicans to do it? They have a practice like that in China, due to the fact they have pretty much killed off all the bees there. It's not very effective at all. 

http://www.worldcrunch.com/tech-science/when-humans-are-forced-to-replace-the-bees-they-killed/pollinating-bees-nanxin-sichuan/c4s15784/ Actually, according to radio lab, humans are much more efficient. The thing is, though, you have to pay humans.

Plus bees are the best! Stop spraying them with pesticides...

edit: not sure what happened here, but thanks for all the karmas..




 Herbicides are likely also responsible.  Bees need flowers and they're probably better off with a wide variety of plants.  Humans would die off in a similar manner if we were all given nothing but pbj's to live on.
 This is actually something that has had a great effect on the Monarch Butterfly population. The near eradication of Milkweed has left them with no way to migrate across the united states to there they breed. Monsanto of all people apparently were present at a conference discussing the possibility growing Milkweed "Islands" north-south across the US to make a migration path for the butterflies. Sort of like Salmon ladders on dams... The city of Austin just passed a measure to plant more milkweed, specifically for the Monarch population. And fix our goddamn political system so we can do something about pesticides. I know! While both the House and the Senate are in session, we'll lock the doors to the floor of both chambers and then fill the room with bees. Thousands of them. We won't unlock the doors until they fix the legislation regulating pesticides. That might cause the opposite effect that i think you want.  Okay, change of plan.

Fill the room with pesticides! But then all of congress will be de...

Yeah, let's do this. the FBI is tracking you now I want to kill the FBI with airplanes. Not if the FBI ARE THE AIRPLANES! What if everything was airplanes? BURN EM WITH JET FUEL!!! Oh my god!! It makes so much sense!! "Flying Beurocrats in aIrplans!"...F...B...I! Why didn't I notice it before?!?! &gt; Flying Beurocrats in aIrplans!"...F...B...I!

The misspelling of Bureaucrats definitely reinforces the authenticity of this deduction. Somehow I feel like I'm going to read this comment again in a federal indictment linked by wired... "now"

Hahahahahaha! I dunno. I'm imagining a the Senate and congress spraying pesticides everywhere inadvertently killing each other, while over in Europe Guy Fawks begins spinning in his grave to the point where his corpse can run a perpetual motion engine and multiple issues are solved in one go. [This is what will happen](http://a.pomf.se/hrplbn.webm). Do you really want that to happen?! What the fuck show is this? Calm down Dr. Bees Well, it worked for [Oprah](http://media.giphy.com/media/dcubXtnbck0RG/giphy.gif) http://beesbeesbees.com/ Neonicotinoids, specifically. Seriously guys, work on banning this shit. They are incredibly damaging to pollinators but big businesses who create them eg Bayer have lots of money and they push em anyways. Neonicotinoids. 

Edit: the EU has suspended certain uses of neonicotinoids, not banned them! Sorry for the misinformation! I can't believe that a company with such an outstanding history as Bayer would do such a thing! They seem like such a caring company.  Neonics are not banned in the EU; certain uses were suspended pending further review. 
Neonics are not the problem here or in the EU -- the issue (like most) is complicated, but the main culprit is the varroa mite, which weakens the bees and makes them susceptible to disease and other stress. 
Source: Numerous credible studies including those by the USDA working group on bees. Personally: I work on this issue every day, and am a beekeeper.  from /u/zboned posted [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/36cush/serious_what_is_an_alarming_fact_that_the_next/crcw12f)

&gt;  Here is a good short rundown of a few simple things you can do to hugely help bees! Not just limiting use of pesticides, but also planting some seeds/plants! http://www.queenofthesun.com/get-involved/10-things-you-can-do-to-help-bees/

&gt;  Save the bees, kill a website. Props to /u/leddible for the cached link http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http://www.queenofthesun.com/get-involved/10-things-you-can-do-to-help-bees/ As someone who has a beehive in my backyard that my mom runs (I'm 16), 

1. Don't spray pesticides/insecticides on anything (except wasp nests. Fuck those things).

2. Plant flowers. Seriously, bees need flowers for pollen and nectar as their main food source. Every bit will help.

3. If you really want to, start beekeeping! Its kind of expensive to start but if your hives survive for a long time you'll find you can make some good money. My mom sells our extras for a couple dollars a jar and we made a couple hundred dollars last year on it. If you want to start, read Beekeeping for Dummies. If I were to keep bees, I would have to take up making mead as an additional hobby. Oh my god, ~~honey~~ mead. @_@

EDIT: I'm dumb and apparently saying "honey mead" is redundant. Long live mead! Yep, my dad makes mead. It's one of the few alcoholic drinks I actually enjoy. Wouldn't that be so satisfying? To make and give away mead you made yourself, from honey your very own bees have made? I'm hoping to be there in 3 years. :) I'm surprised that no top comment has explicitly mentioned neonicotinoid insecticides.

The cause of colony collapse is no longer a mystery: Multiple studies have indicated that it is very specifically the direct and, to a lesser extent, the indirect effect of neonicotinoids that are killing the bees. You want to save the bees? Ban the neonicotinoids. Really good question:  Come on over  ----------&gt; /r/beekeeping This message has been brought to you by *buzz*feed Uh...why not answer? They're keeping the solution a secret so they one day may rise as the bee overlords. Bee sympathizers don't want you to know this one easy secret to save the bees  Bee Keepers hate him! I guess it's implied that the answer is...beekeeping exactly.
 1. Increase the amount of flowers and greenery. Plant stuff when you can.

2. Stop spraying pesticides over everything on the planet.

3. Buy locally grown fruits vegetables and honey to support local beekeepers.

4. [Donate to the pollinator partnership](http://pollinator.org/donation.htm)

5. If you have plants available for pollination, [register with the pollinator partnership.](http://pollinator2.massiveimpacttechnology.com/ShareMap.aspx)

6. [Don't let Monstanto take over Syngenta](http://action.sumofus.org/a/monsanto-syngenta-takeover/?akid=10706.815612.yz1eTa&amp;rd=1&amp;sub=fwd&amp;t=1) We gotta stop harvesting the knees of bees. Everything in the 50s through to the 80s was made of bees knees. You'd ask "What do you think of your new colour TV" and Mr.NineteenSixty would say "Oh, it's the bees knees" I switched to wasp's nipples. I've found the flavor and consistency to be near an exact match. /r/nocontext

 &gt; We gotta stop harvesting the knees of bees. 

What I do to support my family is none of your bees nest.  Beeswax. None of your *beeswax*. My god.  Seriously, how did he screw that up. What a dikc! YOU I don't know what I was expecting Planting native flowers is one easy way.
http://www.queenofthesun.com/get-involved/10-things-you-can-do-to-help-bees/ Keep the dandelions in your lawn.
 I don't think you understand. Killing dandelions is not about making lawns look pretty; it's about asserting our dominance as a species. Plant a shitload of gardens full of flowers bees like.

Or sell a shitload of people on the hobby of beekeeping. I'm strangely fascinated. If I was to pick an odd hobby this'd be it. Odd hobby? It seems pretty normal to me, but maybe I'm hanging with odd people. Hmm that might be it. It's simple, we steal the Declaration of Independence.


Then wait for Nicolas Cage to come along, when we kidnap him and sacrifice him to bring back the bees.


Perfect honey trap. **By killing Andy Milonakis** Is he still around? Does he still do stuff? He was in at least one rap video that was hilarious He's put bees on his head for the *last time* [Here's](http://www.xerces.org/pollinator-conservation/plant-lists/) a resource for finding those bee-friendly plants everyone is talking about. Stop using neonicitinoids in our pesticides. Both addictive, and destructive. The chemicals actually damage parts of the honeybee brain dealing with communication and social interaction, leading to Colony Collapse Disorder. I would LOVE for a city to make an entire warehouse dedicated to bees. Just have to keep it away from schools. Plan A was never meant to work, Cooper.  I just saw this last night. What a great movie.  I saw it a week ago. Watched it a second time too. I can't stop thinking about it. Look at the whole problem, not the pieces

Colony Collapse is caused by many factors

Pesticides weaken, but don't kill

Parasites weaken, but don't kill

Stress (caused by constant moving around)weakens, but doesn't 
kill

Add up all of the weaknesses, and together they kill

Unfortunately, much of the debate today is black and white, no grey

The ag industry seems to argue that there are only two possibilities..if the pesticide doesn't kill bees immediately, it's considered safe You are missing a lot of the whole picture still. The ag industry knows there are other possibilities. But when they have extremely slim margins and income that is heavily dependent on weather, pests, weeds, etc, they'll do the cheapest most reliable way to keep those variables under control. It's easy to blame ag... But there are a lot of parts to ag that most people have no idea about. Bake sale. Bee lover here! To help them out, plant bee-friendly flowers around your property, and if you're willing, keep bees. It's not as dangerous or difficult as you might think, and very rewarding. But what kind of flowers are "bee-friendly"? Just any kind? Family owns a large plot of land where we keep bees. Funnily enough, easy to take care of. Pretty penny for the investment, but oh so worth. I can provide pictures tomorrow, just hit me up in around 13 hours and I can show Ya some pictures of my property and some hives. For US wanna be bee savers: Why are we ignoring the fact that honey bees aren't native to the US and they are killing native bee species. scratch saving honey bees, save native bees. ^-- THIS 

The european honey bee isn't native to the US, and we have plenty of bee species that can fill the void and are not dying from whatever is killing the european honey bee -- they native bees just aren't liked as much be corporate agriculture (don't know why). 

I have mason bees all over my place, and they keep my blueberries well pollinated.  Give bee's a massage at the end of their work day to relax them.  Honey Bee Jesus. Beesus We can go hive to hive asking if they would like to talk about our lord and savior. We pray to the queen, the sun, and the honeycomb spirit. Bees be with you; and with you. Ban neonicotinoid pesticides This is going to get buried but I thought I'd share my family's lifestyle with bees (you don't have to live in rural areas to do this!):

My parents live on a hill so they terraced the backside of the hill to make the most out of the land. They started a mini-farm to grow their own vegetables and fruit trees, complete with bees to pollinate all their trees and plants! The bees are very docile and having a backyard farm with bees is an awesome symbiotic relationship. We harvest honey every year and give bottles to our neighbors, not to mention the bees pollinate their flowers too!

[Pictures of our suburban, household farm](http://imgur.com/a/O6f1I)

(Also, my dad is hella cute. He went all out; attended Beekeeping 101 at the local college and got a hazmat suit!) Keep bees.  Or at least keep your condo association or whatever from banning the keeping of bees.  Bees are no longer safe in the country (too much pesticide) so they have to live with us, and they're very good city dwellers. &gt; There is no continuing decline in honeybee or wild bee numbers. There was in the 1980s when the varroa mite hit bee hives. But not today. Honeybee numbers are higher today than they were in the 1990s when neo-nics began to be widely used. This is true in Europe, North America and the world. There are about ten million more beehives in the world today than there were in 2000.

http://www.rationaloptimist.com/blog/there-is-no-bee-apocalypse.aspx When we moved my sister to an apartment years ago, the landlord was out while we were sitting on a moving van full of stuff. Friendly neighbor walked by, saw us and offered to 'let us in'. He took a thin flathead screwdriver and in the kitchen window used it to pry open the flimsy turn-lock, climb in and unlock the house.

He then told her to put a nail through the window to seal it against burglars, since the units all came with AC anyways.

So, good guy burglar, I guess. Reminds me of the car thief I hired to break into my rental car when I left my keys in the car. Saw a group of sketchy looking guys sitting around smoking a joint and offered a guy $10 if he could get the door open without breaking anything. Took him about 10 seconds. Well spent $10. How do you approach that? "uhh.. I'm wondering any of you just so happen to be a car thief."  I was super up front. I just said "Hey man, I will give you $10 if you can get my car door open without breaking anything cause I locked my key inside." Just like that.

He laughed, said "tourist", had me hold his beer, and popped the door open easy as could be, had the little tool thing with him and everything. Takes nearly as long to type it out as it did for the whole thing to happen.

I probably saved myself getting my car broken into by asking him to break into it, for sure they were waiting to break into peoples cars there.

edit: letters. That's interesting. I feel like that could have gone a totally different direction. Good thing it worked out for you! I didn't treat him like a criminal cause it was more like a job offer, there were other people around, and he wasn't physically intimidating. I also had the answer of "no I don't think you are a criminal, I am just fucking hoping I can find one so I can get my car open. FUCK!" Which makes me look desperate and stupid and would probably de-escalates things.

We even ended up fishing together for a while right in front of the cars, they thought my wife was hilarious cause she was chasing birds getting pictures and the birds kept flying away to land behind her. Lock your dead bolts, Can't tell you how easy it is to card a boot with the dead bolt unlocked.  Might as well leave the door open. Yessir. The knob just keeps the wind from opening the door. The deadbolt keeps people from opening the door. We don't even lock the knob, only the deadbolt. I figure if someone is kicking through the deadbolt, the knob is the least of their worries. To an extent. The average door deadbolt is strong enough to keep most out, but a few well placed kicks with some strong legs can get you in.  
  
I know this because one day dad forgot the keys to the cabin. Cabin was still enjoyed.  This used to be a TV show. I forget the name, but they had two ex cons "rob" someone's house and then give that person tips on how they could be better protected. One time they had a cop volunteer to be "robbed" and he was shocked how easily the robbers stole his stuff I believe it was called It takes a thief It was. Such a great show. Shame it isn't on anymore. Because of the punctuation, I read this in William Shatner's voice.  Clarification: The Discovery Channel TV show from 2005, not the Robert Wagner one from the 1960s. I hung out with one of those dudes in a karaoke bar in NYC. It was a couple of months before the show came out and he was telling me all about it. Super nice guy - wish I hadn't lost his number. I once was visiting a female friend of mine who lived in a bit of a shitty neighborhood.  At the time I was working construction and swung by after work.  I got to the house and took my size 12 work boots off and left them on the front porch.  I tend to carry a pair of flip flops in my bag and changed into those then we hit a patio for some sunshine beers.  I ended up forgetting my boots at her place and was in no rush to get them back as I had another pair.

Now I do not know how true this is but she swears that having a pair of big work boots right by her front door made her safer.  I had pretty much forgotten about them as they were on their way out but she left them right where they were.  She had less craziness happen in her front yard, less strangers knocking on her door and she was not broken into again at that place.

Of course, it could have been the smell. Reminds me of [this DIY southern security system](http://www.jokeoverflow.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/Southern-Home-Security-System-500x632.jpg).

Edit: clarified link text. That's a wonderful idea. My boyfriend's mom told me to buy a very large dog house, a chain, and stake for this purpose. You just stake the chain near the house and drag the rest of the chain into the dog house. i was gonna say just this... was reading thru comments to see if anyone else mentioned it.  i had a bf for a few years who was 6'4", 240 lbs, and wore size 15 boots.  we used to go to the river and hiking alot, so he'd take off his muddy boots by the front door.  i always felt safer when they were out there, and later asked him to leave an old pair there that i'd move around occasionally.   
 So it is a thing.  Neat. What about moats? Why is nobody mentioning moats? Because their pike men can just fill it with dirt. You'd have to spend a fortune on archers. Fuckin pikemen.. If you're in very student-y areas of UK cities, when you order a taxi get it from a slightly different address (like a block of flats with lots of lights on, or a house you know has no one living in it) and be waiting outside it, or better yet, get it from outside a supermarket or a pub etc. In my city, certain cab drivers are in cahoots with burglars, and let them know when a house is empty for most of the night because the students are out clubbing (even if they leave a light on etc).

Edit: not a burglar, just a student in a city (Liverpool, for everyone asking) which has a LOT of break-ins on every road in the student area. And GET YOUR STUFF INSURED! Landlord insurance generally covers the building, not your possessions.

[Submitted to LifeProTips] (http://www.reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/34uzx1/lpt_if_youre_getting_a_taxi_try_giving_them_a/), thanks for the suggestion /u/Ex1tStrategy, you have a very appropriately burglar type username!

[Example of this type of burglary scheme in the UK] (http://www.nottinghampost.com/Taxi-driver-Kasid-Hussain-jailed-gang-targeted/story-17370805-detail/story.html) Generally try to find private rented accommodation away from the student areas. Burglars will hit student heavy areas as part of a regular circuit regardless of countermeasures taken because students as a rule are idiots when it comes to security and the payoff is so great with all those laptops phones and gadgets left lying around. No they don't even care if you're home. They will break in anyway and take what they can get.

Pro tip for Notts: don't live in Lenton. 

Edit: /r/Nottingham for all you locals crawling out of the woodwork. It needs love! In America its kosher to sit staring at your door with a shotgun.

Unless it's California. Are shotguns known to cause cancer in California?  Duh, they make smoke when you shoot them. Nope, I got one of those new E-Shotguns. It's water vapor. I shot a shotgun when I was younger and got diagnosed with freedom  We had a real brain trust try to run a burglary ring in the town I grew up. One worked as a hostess at a local restaurant. When she saw someone come in that she knew she'd call her friends so they could go rob their house. Didn't take the police long to realize everyone was at that restaurant when their house was broken into. They ran a sting and caught 5 or 6 high school kids. Stupid kids started out by breaking into a house just to get some beer and all ended up with felony convictions.  All of this is great advice.

But...  The number one way to keep a burglar out of your house is to keep burglars out of your life.

[66% of all burglaries are committed by people known to the victim.](http://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/vdhb.pdf)  Sketchy son in law.  Jealous neighbor.  Drug addict daughter.  These are the people most likely to burglarize your house.

It may be tough to cut these people out of your life.  Cameras and alarm systems often deter these people.  Try to hide information about your whereabouts from them.  Don't post your upcoming trip to Belize on Facebook where they can see it.

Give the local pawn shop a picture of your sketchy drug addict son in law.  Tell them if he's pawning things it's probably stolen from you.  They may not seem interested but believe me, pawn shops aren't interested in trouble they'll send him out the door if he comes in.  This [article from the Center for Problem-Oriented Policing](http://www.popcenter.org/problems/burglary_home) is not written by a burglar, but it answers the question quite thoroughly.

&gt; Burglars select targets based on a number of key factors, including the following:

&gt; * familiarity with the target, and convenience of the location
* occupancy
* visibility or surveillability
* accessibility
* vulnerability or security
* potential rewards

This is followed by considerable detail about each category.

edit: For those who may be too...busy...to click the link, here are the sub-bullets for each of those categories (they further elaborate more on each in the article).

&gt;Familiarity with target, and convenience of the location:

&gt;* Houses near a ready pool of offenders
* Houses near major thoroughfares
* Houses on the outskirts of neighborhoods
* Houses previously burglarized
* Houses near burglarized houses

&gt;Occupancy:

&gt;* Houses vacant for extended periods
* Houses routinely vacant during the day
* Houses of new residents
* Houses without dogs

&gt;Visibility or surveillability

&gt;* Houses with cover
* Houses that are secluded
* Houses with poor lighting
* Houses on corners
* Houses with concealing architectural designs

&gt;Accessibility

&gt;* Houses easily entered through side or back doors and windows
* Houses next to alleys

&gt;Vulnerability or security

&gt;* Houses with weakened entry points
* Houses whose residents are careless about security
* Houses with few or no security devices

&gt;Potential rewards

&gt;* Houses displaying signs of wealth

 they must love google earth..  oh look 2nd story balconies in the back yard &amp; a ladder stored behind the shed.   Don't post on Facebook that you are not home and how long you will be out. To elaborate on this, don't post vacation photos to social media until you are back home. But my coworkers need to see them IMMEDIATELY for the full effect of Jealous Rage. Don't be friends with coworkers. I feel like being an unemployed homeless person would solve all these problems in one go. Homeless people actually get robbed a lot.  Technically, it's not burglary. This one has always confused me. My facebook posts are set to friends only. I trust my friends. I keep having relatives send me Facebook messages berating me for saying that I'm going to the movies because someone is going to rob me. No they're not.  I don't really get this either.  What are my friends going to do, sell my address for a finders fee?  A lot of people don't know how to use Facebook. Go on some politically contentious sites (e.g. NPR, or any of the Fox personalities' pages) and click on some of the names of the trolls. You'd be amazed at how many people have 0 profile security.

These are also likely the people you can just lob a friend request at and they'll accept it because herpaderp. &gt; These are also likely the people you can just lob a friend request at and they'll accept it because herpaderp.

That is the best reason to accept a friend request. I mean, maybe some acquaintance is actually a thief and you don't know it. But I don't put my address on Facebook, not even in event descriptions, and I move enough and have a common enough name that it would take some effort to find my address through other means. I just really don't think people on Facebook are the people I need to be most worried about. So we got burgled. No alarm, bottom of a cul De sac. Daft in hind sight, but that's 20-20. Anyway, we had people coming to check the house daily ( pick up mail, water plants, what have you).

 One day, the cleaner comes in. Bottle of Bailey's on the table.

Odd. 

Goes around the ground floor. Nothing amiss, buy its feels...odd. 

Upstairs, parents bedroom is out of place. Turns out they took my step mums jewelry. 

Worst of all, they broke my 6 year old sister's piggy bank. 

But how did they get in?

The living room felt draughty. We had old Victorian sash windows. They had cut a little hole above the latch and wedged it open with a lawn edging tool. The shed had a very old lock. They had all the time in the world in that quiet place. 

But how did they know we were gone? There is almost always someone home. 

Two theories: my step mum had made a point a few weeks prior that the new washing machine couldn't be delivered between x and x. Possible. 

Or, the family friend who was checking us daily. Maybe he said something in the pub to a friend " oh the smiths are on holiday until x date". Maybe it was heard. Everyone knows my dad ( local GP, small town), easy to find where he lives. 

We'll never know. But there you go. 

Also, get an alarm, and proper locks. Nothing like closing the barn after the horse has bolted.  Also put a horse in your home while you're away. This will confuse and scare burglars. Serious answer:

I did some thefting in my youth, I'll leave that at that. Keep in mind I was no mastermind.

When picking a house, besides the obvious answers like a full mailbox and newspapers scattered about, I often picked houses by the stupid tricks people use when they go out of town.

Leave the radio on, leave the tv, leave the lights on, etc.

Tons of lights on, and an obnoxiously loud TV on in the living room at 2am on a sunday night in a upper middle class neighborhood? lol k.

When I found a potential house I'd obnoxiously ring the doorbell then run away and watch for activity.

After that, if I felt comfortable I'd try to gain entry. If it was too hard, ohwell. 

Everytime I broke/opened a window or door I would runaway again for a half hour or so and watch for activity. Even if I had to do it in multiple steps. For example, break the window by the door, then run away and wait. Come back and ajar the door, then run away again.

I did this because of an irrational fear of silent alarms. Obiously if I saw any kind of activity or set off an active alarm I would leave.

So you want to keep me out your house? 

Don't appear as a target. (full mailbox, obstucted view of the house from streets)

Don't make it easy for me. Have lots of deadbolts, active alarms, motion lights, dogs, etc. I wouldn't fuck with any of that shit.

If I do get in your house, don't keep small valuables all about. I often did all my work of foot, and stole money, jewlery, small electronics, etc. Have a safe basically. 

Hope that helps.

I'm reformed now but you can still judge.







 Good advice simply because 80% of thieves won't be masterminds. They'll either be someone that needs some quick cash for rent or bills (or maybe drugs, who knows?) or someone who's just messing around. I had a friend who got arrested for breaking into a house just for the thrill of having sex with her boyfriend on someone else's bed. Things happen.  I think if I came home to strangers fucking on my bed I'd probably just walk right back out the door. I spent a year and a half in prison after being convicted of multiple residential burglaries (I was caught after a mailman called 911 after seeing me go through a window).   I had a pretty good run of burglaries from 2007-2008 and haven't done any in seven years, so technology and times have changed since my spree... 

Here's how I picked my houses: 
1.  I would generally only go in the daytime during the week.  The idea was for the adults to be at work and the kids at school. 

2.  I would try to find a corner house because it would have, at least, one side with no neighbors.  

3.  I went in middle class neighborhoods close to a community college.   I live in a large U.S. city and needed an excuse to be in my late 20s walking around with a backpack.  I would stand out too much in wealthy neighborhoods and poorer neighborhoods often have bars on windows because they expect to be robbed.   Middle class people seem to be careless.   I often went in through an unlocked backdoor... interestingly enough, I never went through a front door.  I would always go to the back or side because any fences would provide coverage.  

4.  People think a large dog would be a good deterrent, but I generally avoided those annoying small yapping dogs that never shut up. 

5.   I often went through a bedroom window - whether it was unlocked or not.   I'm committing a major felony.  I didn't care about a broken window. 

6.   I usually went straight to the master bedroom because that's where the good stuff was. 


Things a homeowner can do, besides armed guards around the clock: 

1.  Get a dog that doesn't like strangers.   I don't care if it's big or small or threatening or friendly... as soon as one dog barks, the whole neighborhood starts barking and announcing a burglar's presence. 

2.   Cameras - inside and out. I knew a guy who was caught because he walked by someone's webcam inside their house and ended up on the news.   Make the cameras visible.  If I see a camera, I'm not just moving on to the next house, but I'm going several streets away.  

3.  Lock back fence and restrict access to backyard.   That's generally where I broke into the house from. 

4.  "Beware of dog" and security alarm signs and stickers are completely worthless.   I once broke into a house though a doggy door.   There was no dog home.  

5.  Try not to have any stools or anything in the backyard.  They make climbing through windows easier. 

EDIT -  Just got back from work.  I have a legit job now.   Thank you so much for the Reddit Gold.   I will try to respond to everybody.
 I'm curious. What all did you steal and what did you do with it? Not the same guy, but ive been in the same situation as him. Hes totally spot on about everything. Back doors were unlocked 7 times out of 10. Usually grab things that'll fit in a back pack, so laptops, jewelry, prescription medication (that was the easiest stuff to sell), nicer small things like pocket watches or pocket knifes. Never really found cash though, aside from collectible money. For the record i got caught aswell and served my time, every time i think about it now it makes me sick, i was a really stupid kid back then.  &gt; "Beware of dog" and security alarm signs and stickers are completely worthless. I once broke into a house though a doggy door. There was no dog home.

bro, the "beware of dog" sign is for us, not the criminal. we dont want to get sued after you get mauled
 Dang, great reply. Now I'm freaked out because I happen to live in a place that pretty much exactly fits what a burglar might look for--middle-class neighborhood, close to TWO colleges, occupying a corner apartment on the first floor (assuming that would be just as enticing?). It also backs up to a greenbelt, so lots of good places to hide...so yeah.

BUT, I work from home all day! I would be here when the burglar tried to break in! Ha HA! Hahahaha....ha...haaa...*realizes she needs a shotgun* As long as it's moderately obvious someone is home, I don't think you have much to worry about if you're there. Burglars are not looking to break in while you're there, that makes things way more complicated. It's funny I was just going to post a lifeprotip about this subject.

**Lifeprotip:** if you're a burglar, talk to children! They'll tell you everything!

Example, the other day we were at the store with my 5 year old. A random woman smiles at her and says "Hi! Aren't you pretty, what's your name?"

My daughter then proceeds to rattle off her *full name* (first middle and last), her mommy and daddy's name, what city she lives in, the fact that her older sister just got a new tv and a nintendo Wii-U, and that she's so excited because we're all going to be taking a trip to visit our family in California next month. All in the space of about 30 seconds. She just had so much shit she was excited to share with her new friend she couldn't stop talking. Maybe she secretly hates all of you and knew exactly what she was doing. It's the long con. She's actually in cahoots with the woman to rob them of everything they have. OP, you need to get out of this relationship with your daughter RIGHT NOW. Trust me, you deserve offspring that respect you enough to not rob you. For tips on dumping her and everybody else you've ever loved in your life, visit /r/relationships, the loneliness experts. This is so true. My daughter has really filled in a lot of strangers at grocery stores. I'm sure she'd give out her SSN if she knew it. What's the point of a Social Security Number if you aren't going to be social with it. To rob her of those things would be so cruel :(
 I don't know how we steal California, but I'm willing to give it a try. Naked grandma You're supposed to make your house *less* enticing. NEKKID GRAMMAW. I'm so glad there are other losers that watch game show blooper compilations. Losers? Don't you mean cool winners? Big dicked champions "Burglars of reddit"

We really are a diverse community, aren't we. "Pirates of reddit, how can I avoid getting plundered out on the high seas?" Somali here. Don't be a rich white person who decides to go yachting around the Horn.  Legit answer. Oh a Somali! What is the best wine to pair with lamb? Just an Irishman, but: carignan.  That particular pairing is one of very few actually quasi-magical symbiotic wine pairings.  Truly!  The lamb will completely change your perception of the taste of the carignan.  There aren't a lot of truly alchemical pairings in Oenology, but this is one of them.  10/10, would highly recommend; 11/10 with rice. CLAIMED BY TH' SEA cov'rred a lot, he like be speakin' true. I don't sail anymore at all but I seen me fair share o' plunderin'.

Rifle, cannon, and hard steel be the biggest deterrents.

We be boardin' from a distance. We NOT be engagin' in yer dramatic cannonade shootouts or crashin' our ships into yers or any o' yer flights o' fancy, lest we need be. Losin' more than we gain be the only danger.

I dress fearsome in knee-length boots and dark clothing, topped with a wide hat and a long coat of brightly coloured velvet. I be a tall, spare man with the darkest o' beards long as an oarsman's stroke. I strike fear in the hearts of hardened sailors. A bit like the Devil himself.

Yer fleet emblems do nothin' ter turn me sails. There be too much ter lose to worry about rep'rcussions. I've never been caught in me days of sailin', but if I was... 

I look fer ships with the LEAST viewports havin' cannons. Keepin' yer gunpowder stocked be the best defense.

Keep yer ship docked near strongholds. Dockin' at the public ports be a telltale that there be no one keepin' an eye on yer shipmates' comings and goings.

Take note of yer crew before'n after you dock.

Check yer supplies for stowaways when ye be leavin' port.

If me crew attempts ter plant stowaways and they be eyeballed by mor'n a few of the mates near the dock, they'll prob'ly leave.

Find mates among yer dock workers so they be knowin' who should be aboard yer ship.


Approachin' a ship that don't surrender when they ought, be TERRIFYIN'. I fear fer the day I lose me crew (or me other leg) ter a feisty fleet cap'n. Also the risk of me time left seein' the skies go from "however long there be wind in the sails" ter "however long it takes to go from the gallows to the noose". Me crew will set course double time from the slightest 'o indications a ship be carryin' more'n just civilians.


Again I weighed me anchors long ago but perhaps me experiences be giv'n ye new sailors some wisdom. Sail safe.

EDIT: I see some cap'ns in here saying to have a robust hull. I have never been stopped by a ship's build. It is very easy to be blowin' holes through yer wood, nevermind its shape. If some o' yer brightest find some way ter make metal sail, that'd do the trick - get yer men to make metal hulls viable if ye be thinkin' o' relyin' on this sort of defense.


EDIT2: Nay, I shant be firin' upon ye lubbers' fleetbound sweetheats what don't fire upon me first. Have ye a crack shot fer a lover I likely be keepin' away altogether. But be sure their aim be true because me rifles ne'er miss.  
Aye, put ye efforts ter keepin' yerself and yer mates afloat, steer clear of the roger, and yeh'll always find wind in yer sails and rum in yer caskets.  
This ship be at full mast. Bless ye, me hearties, with yer cheery shanties!  
Blast all ye scurvy dogs with with yer neg'tive uns. It ne'er be doin' anyone any good. The right fear o' the sea itself be ye, I be certain! Ye best steer clear of me wenches. on a side note, it looks like /u/DavyJones hated on someone about a vasectomy and has not be heard from in 6 years...I guess he got lost in the locker or something. dear diary: today I learned pirates are real. I saw one on the internet. he even sounded like a pirate. I also learned it's impossible to turn a pirates's voice off in my head once it has been activated. shit. We got at least two really legit answers, so yeah. Place a sticker in the window that reads: *Premises Protected By RadioShack*

That sign really says that you have nothing worth stealing. If anybody tried to steal my 8 track player I would try and knock them out with my VCR. And if that didn't work I would throw my walkman at them.  And when my wife is done faxing the police, she'll try to get the whole ordeal on tape with her camcorder.  You are going to have a fun time telling that story to your friends on AIM and Friendster  AIM and Friendster? Look at Mr. Moneybags here. It's all about the dialup BBS chat rooms.

 BBS chat rooms?  Excuse me, Mr. Rockefeller.  Not all of us have moved on from the telegraph. Slow your roll there Mr Trump, Telegraphs are for the big spenders. Carrier pigeons are all i can afford  Sorry, I couldn't hear you over my smoke signals... Well look at Mr. Gates, Not all of us can afford Blankets. All i can afford to do is set a log on fire. I don't know, my fleet of RC Cars might have something different to say. "Burglars of reddit, where do you usually meet up after a job?" --Not cops of reddit. Waffle house Los Pollos Hermanos It's so funny you should say this.  When my kids were younger, early grade school age, they loved waffles.  When we passed by a Waffle House near where my mother lives, they begged to go.  This Waffle House wasn't in the best of neighborhoods, and my mother told them they didn't want to go there.  Her exact words, "There's nothing there but thugs and floozies."  My kids are now all in their late teens, and they repeat "thugs and floozies" every time we see a Waffle House. At this old warehouse. But be quiet, Mr. Orange is in a bad mood. He got shot in the gut. Why is OP Mr Pink? [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I used to have a 36" Sony Wega TV. I used to say that if someone broke in and had enough muscle or men to haul that heavy bastard off then they had earned it and could keep it. Oh man, the one comment in this chain that wasn't deleted. What happened here? Basically the OP said 'post your address for their do-not-rob list', and people started posting addresses. Real or fake I can understand the mass deletes. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Seen a couple of these supposed experts saying your dog is useless. Bullshit. If you have a little yappy dog that makes sense.

My home was broken into several years ago during the middle of the day. I had a Lab/gsd mix. Like a lot of people would say "nicest dog ever, would probably kiss you to death blah blah blah.  I got a call from the cops because someone driving by called the police after seeing a bloody man in a ripped shirt running away from our front door.

When I got home my front door area just inside the house had what looked like a little dried blood on the floor and door. The police said when they arrived the dog was just lying there staring at the door, the police said he barked as they arrived but quickly and easily calmed down. Nothing was taken and only a small table by the door where we put our keys and stuff was knocked over. Long story short guy brought himself to the hospital and the cops picked him up as he was leaving. We didn't press charges for breaking in or anything, just let the police handle it and never actually saw the guy but the police officer told us his cheek was totally torn from the side of his mouth toward his jawline. We figured Pickles did enough justice and our lives would be easier to just move on.
 Same thing happened to my grandparents back in the early 90's. I was a little kid when it happened, but I remember hearing the story about them coming home after someone had broken into their home. They had a 100+ lb. Doberman Pinscher that apparently caught the guy off-guard. I guess the burglar thought that the dog wasn't able to actually get into the house from the backyard, but didn't realize there was dog door through the garage door and another into the house. Well, they came home to house with blood all over and a very angry dog. Probably one of the best dogs ever. I used to ride around it like it was a horse. Thank you, Max! Good 'Ole Pickles. I hope he feasted that night. My neighbourhood is number one in the state for break ins, have been broken in to twice as a teenager and recently bought my own home, so it's on my mind a lot

I often leave a light on near the back of the house so it can still be seen from the front but the room can't be seen from outside. I figure this could be a deterrent to any crooks looking for a late night steal, they'll just go to the next house with no lights on 

Other that that I have a safe, and don't keep any real valuables in the house that aren't in the safe. My most expensive things are the biggest and hardest to steal  A higher up comment said to make sure your safe is bolted to the ground because burglars will gladly snatch up safes to take home and work on opening on their own time. Or just get a huge safe that would take no fewer than 13 men and a crane to lift.  Imagine how embarrassed they would be if they only brought *12* men and a crane. They'd be pretty angry. If you hear me rattling around your house, you should hide in a closet and jump out to scare me. Rather than shoot you, I would run like a baby (a baby that can run) &gt; I would run like a baby (a baby that can run)

I imagine you waddling away for a few steps before you fall and bash your head on the coffee table Baby legs, I'm partnering you up with regular legs!  Detective, this is upsetting to me because I feel like I don't need no regular legs partner.  Oh man, I can't get him. I guess I learned a valuable lesson today. *WURURURURU* That's the sound I make when I'm trying to run fast. *WURURURURU* On point reference. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-o0Qp5J_Oo8 At least he's honest.  I grew up with a whole lot of thieving scumbags.  Bank robbers, car jackers, etc.

Here are my suggestions, in no particular order:

-  Get a big fucking dog.  Very few thieves want to deal with that.  If they aren't specifically targeting your house, then they will move on to the next one.  For houses they are targeting, they will leave poisoned food outside.  Keep an eye out for that.
-  Don't use window air conditioners.  This was by far the most common way to gain access by my friends.  Kick in the A/C and climb on in.  If nothing of value was found, the A/C could be taken in for scrap metal.
-  Motion detecting lights.  They are a minor annoyance.  Will scare off the brainless junkies.  
-  Visible cameras.  Can be fake.  Though they're so cheap, just get real ones.  
-  Don't leave your garage door open.  Thieves like to drive around nice neighborhoods, looking for people who left their garage open.  They love a situation where someone might be mowing their backyard.  Quickly hop out of the car, run into the garage, grab as many tools as they can, and run.  If they brought a truck, they'll be grabbing bigger stuff.  You probably won't even notice or know what happened.
-  Make it a royal pain in the ass to get into your backyard.  10ft fence would be nice.  No one likes breaking in through the front door or front windows.  No one likes scaling 10ft fences either.  This compliments the "get a big fucking dog" concept.
-  Don't keep your car keys on a hook next to the front door.  Newer cars are impossible for an average thief to hotwire.  Easy as hell to kick in your front door and snatch the keys straight off the hook, though.  
-  Related to the above, don't answer the door for strangers.  If thieves are casing out the neighborhood, they will pretend to be magazine salesmen / jehovahs witnesses / etc. just to take a peek of what's inside.  Especially that hook for car keys.  Once again, a big fucking dog can help here.
-  Get an alarm system.  If you can't pony up for that, get the stickers &amp; signage off eBay.  
-  Don't keep anything in your car.  Especially work trucks and vans.  Hell, I even know of someone who robbed a cop car.  Keep your vehicles empty.  Locks don't fucking matter - the lock on the backdoor of a workvan can be popped out in under 5 seconds with a slide puller and a screw.  
-  The locks on your house are fucking useless, too.  If you're really paranoid and have a good budget - steel door frame + solid steel door.  I don't have much of any other advice on that.  Dont trust locks.  
-  Lock your doors.  Even though I don't think much of locks, don't leave your house unlocked either.  Deadbolts on every exterior door.
-  Keep expensive stuff out of sight.  Your 70" flatscreen tv should not be visible from the street.  Your Macbook Pro shouldn't be kept right in front of your 1st floor office window.  
-  Don't invite strangers over.  Hosting an open-invitation kegger is a terrible idea.  If a thief shows up - they are either stealing something right then and there, or they are casing the place to come back later.  
-  If you have a safe, use it.  It's utterly stupid how many people who have them, just leave them open all the time because it's "annoying."  
-  If you have guns, try to keep that information to yourself.  There are whole subsets of thieves dedicated to scouting out gun owners and robbing them when they're not home.  
-  Don't post your entire social life publicly on social media.  The people scouting out robberies aren't always across the street in a sketchy van.  They're just following you on facebook twitter foursquare and instagram.  
-  Keep anything that is *really* expensive in a bank security box.  If your grandmother passed on a $50k diamond ring to you - don't keep it in your jewelry box.  
-  Don't do illegal shit.  The houses of drug dealers are robbed on a consistent basis, because the thieves know the cops won't get called.  (And the propensity for those victims to have expensive jewelry and electronics.)   Stay on the up-and-up, and a lot of trouble will avoid you.
-  Leave the TV and lights on when you're not home.  Not only does it give the impression someone is home, it also will entertain and comfort your big fucking dog.
-  If you're in an apartment - do whatever you can to add more locks (if possible according to your lease) , alarm system, cameras, etc.  -  lots of shady maintenance men and landlords out there.  
-  Lock your patio door, even if you live on the 10th floor.  Scaling the sides of most buildings is actually pretty fucking easy.  
-  If you are prohibited from owning a big fucking dog, a little annoying yip-yapping ankle-biting dog can work.
-  Cats are fucking useless.
-  Keep the flaunting to a minimum.  If you have an expensive vehicle, at least try to keep it in a garage.  If you have lots of expensive tools, don't fly a "SNAP ON" banner outside your garage.  Don't put up a "This house is protected by Smith &amp; Wesson" sign.  
-  Read up and be aware of how most popular scams work.  Water meter scams, fence salesman scams, etc.  Most of the time, someone will be distracting you somehow, while their accomplice sneaks in to your house.  Just don't talk to strangers and you will avoid all of them.
-  Junkies love to rob the elderly.  Medications &amp; jewelry.  Your broke college ass is probably safe, but please make sure your grandmother is all set.  
-  Don't leave an extra key under your doormat / under a rock / in your mailbox / on top of the door frame / etc.  

Also worth discussing, are what to do when a burglar is in your house:

-  Get the fuck out.  Your Playstation is not worth getting stabbed over.  
-  You will most likely lose any fights you start.  Don't do that.
-  Call the cops.  Don't count on them to save you, but do it anyways.  At the very least, you will most likely have to file a police report anyways for an insurance claim.
-  The chambering of a shotgun generally scares the shit out of thieves.  Real thieves will get the fuck out of there if they think someone has a gun.  Junkies, though, might be too fucked up to notice.  Or they might have their own and not care.  Still best to get the fuck out.
-  If there is no way to avoid an encounter with the robber, get naked.  Not down to your underwear - I mean 100% naked.  Get crazy.  Yell things.  This is not advised for attractive females - but for the average Redditor, it's a viable deterrent.
-  The thief has a specific game plan in mind.  They know how they're going to get in, where they plan to go, what they plan to take, where they plan to exit, and how they plan to leave.  Anything that can be done that will majorly disrupt their plan, will generally make them leave asap.  
-  Mace.  If you can't legally procure mace, sporting goods stores should carry bear spray.  If you can't get that either for some reason - wasp/hornet spray.  Again, I really can't stress this enough, goal #1 is to get the fuck out.  Don't bring wasp spray to a gun fight.
-  If you have your keys on you, set off your car alarm.  

And, lastly, just some general advice:

-  Follow your local news and police reports vigorously.  You should be able to get a feel for the types of crime happening in your area, and can figure out a game plan based on that.  Personally, my area is high-crime, but it's all smash-and-grab type thefts.  While my vehicle has been robbed 3x in the past year, I have zero concern whatsoever that I will be the victim of an armed home invasion.  It's just not the style for the area. 
-  If you have a choice, try to live in a moderately populated area, near a police station.  Living at the end of an isolated cul-de-sac is going to be a lot easier for a thief to get into without being noticed, than a townhome in a 100-unit property.  Be friendly with your neighbors, to the point where they will recognize any sketchy activity.
-  Keep your nose clean, and don't associate yourself with sketchy characters.  Crime begets crime.  It's callous for me to say, but really, 90%+ of the victims of crime that I know - had it coming.  
-  Keep receipts for anything you paid more than $250 for, and keep them in a fireproof safe.  If you do end up having to file an insurance claim, they are going to fuck you over hardcore without documentation.  
-  Be aware that for high ticket items, they are required to be scheduled on your policy ahead of time.  If you have a $15k home theater system, or $20k in collectible MagicTG cards, your insurance company needs to know about that ahead of time.
-  Keep serial numbers (and photos, if possible) of anything you care about.  If your laptop gets stolen, and you see it the next day in the pawn shop down the street, it won't mean shit unless you have that serial number already on file somewhere.  Register all of your products with the manufacturer whenever possible.
-  You will have a hell of a time dealing with an automotive theft claim is the thief used your car keys.  Keep those safe.
-  Make copies of all your important documents, including copies of all your credit cards.  It will be 100x easier to cancel all of them if a thief gets them.  
-  Shred any important documents you are throwing out.  I could write endlessly about identity theft.  I'll save that for another day.
-  Big. Fucking. Dog.
-  Regularly backup your computer to some cloud-based service.  Dropbox, Google Drive, etc.   If someone steals your laptop, it shouldn't fuck up your life.  
-  Install some sort of tracking app on your computer and phone RIGHT NOW if you haven't already. Especially on the 'don't do crime' and 'don't associate with sketchy people' count. A majority of the people I know who were robbed found it was someone they knew and trusted who just turned out to be fiending, sketchy and shallow, or perverted (panty thieves are real).  
Have a mental list of people you can trust to wander your house, and people you definitely *can't*. Share the second list with your family regularly. You might have to associate with some scumbags in your life. You don't have to get robbed by them. &gt; get naked. Not down to your underwear - I mean 100% naked. Get crazy. Yell things. This is not advised for attractive females - but for the average Redditor, it's a viable deterrent.

Good one.
 I forgot to mention, you can keep the fedora on.  Make sure to fluff up the neckbeard.  Yell in Klingon.  Assert dominance.   This is a huge fear of mine, what do burglars tend to do with pets? I don't even care about electronics, but don't you dare touch Mr. Mittens... Can't say for every instance but in mine, they scared the piss out of my pit, and locked him in a bedroom. Didn't physically hurt him  &gt; they scared the piss out of my pit

Literally, I assume?
 Yes :-( my bed was covered.... If Mr. Mittens is a porcupine you should be safe My mom's house was broken into at about 10am in broad daylight. By a professional group. She had two little dogs there, friendly and as harmless as they come. They intentionally let both of them out of the house and obviously kicked (or something) the one dog severely injuring his back. Luckily after hours of searching we found the dogs. A neighbor a few blocks over saw them out and let them in.
And thankfully the scumbags were caught and sentenced to over 35 years. 

Edit: the 35 years was not just for the burglary of my mother's house. They were an organized crime ring, robbed at least 20 homes, had illegal weapons when arrested, and also they all had prior criminal records. They were legit bad guys. [deleted] Good. They shot my rabbit with a pellet gun. Weeks later my friends house was robbed and they found his dog covered with newspapers alive and stabbed with multiple forks still hanging out of it. :( Jesus. I don't even care about the possessions, don't touch my fucking dog. What the fuck.

May I ask what Country this happened in? Toronto, Canada. Oh my god my blood pressure just spiked reading this.  How infuriating!  I'm not to worried about that. Some guy (actually a contractor going to fix our bathroom) stepped in without knocking. Somehow my Golden turned into a wolf, looked pretty epic. I don't think she would mind dying in combat either. No dog is afraid to die a good death,for they will dine whit the gods in valhalla Have you ever seen John Wick? That would be horrible. He reacted accordingly.  To the legitimate burglars in here, I feel like I need to tell you something.  My brother and one of my friends (completely independently of each other) have almost a fantasy about shooting a burglar. 

They both have this romantic visualization of them being the good guy hero and burglars being the perfect example of a bad guy that is coming into their house to kill their family. 

They daydream and plan for this scenario.  My brother even has his alarm siren turned off when he's home so it only rings his phone and won't scare an intruder away... like he's hunting or something. 

I just want you to know that these people are out there.  If you break into their house, you are getting shot by a guy with a raging hero boner.  And I frequently hear the same thing... "shoot to kill because if you don't, they'll sue you." 

It's not worth it.  Stay out of other people's houses.  [deleted] "Shoot to kill because if you don't, they'll sue you"

Make senses but damn... My dad's friend is a sherif. He told me that word for word I always heard, 'make sure there's only 1 side to the story for the police.' 3 words: Rooftop Korean Snipers Save your money. Rooftop Koreans should be enough.

Just imagine someone's trying to break into your house, and they look up to see a bunch of Koreans looking at him like "You better reave. Fuck you guy." I thought the point was to get them to NOT rob you.

reave  /rv/
1) carry out raids in order to plunder.
2) rob (a person or place) of something by force.
3) steal (something). Cover everything in mayonnaise. I mean *everything.* The bed, the surfaces, the dog, yourself--everything. 

Burglars hate mayonnaise. Nice try, mayonnaise-loving home-invader. Shotgun trip wire trap on every entrance.  If you have a Repair skill of 45, you should be fine.  Or the light step perk Free shotgun and ammo! Keep your  Windows open. Burglars  are extremely superstitious and believe that an open window is a sign of bad omen.  I am sorry but I have a Mac. Last time someone left their Mac open they lost their Jobs. (*Ba-dum tiss*)  Last time someone left their Gates open they lost their Windows. *(Ba-dum tiss^tiss^tiss^tiss^tiss^tiss)*

Edit: Drums Last time the Smithsonian let a Gates in they lost their Declaration of Independence.  Ironically, it was later found in a Cage. This man is a burglar trying to fool you! Burgling can get real sweaty with the head-to-toe black clothes and all, especially during summer.

Burglars will target houses with open windows because the draft helps them to stay cool while working. Locking your door.  Wouldn't believe the amount of people that don't lock their doors. 

Edit: Story.  In college I was stupid.  No excuse for my actions as the risk was much greater than the reward.  I could have ruined my life going to a top 10 US university.  A friend and I would sneak into the freshmen dorms at 4-5am in the morning literally open unlocked doors and loot whatever was laying out in the main room.  The way the dorm was set up was a main room would connect to 3 bedrooms and 1 bathroom.  Electronics, xbox, ps, laptops, bikes, TVs(we took a 50 inch tv from one room.  awkward as fuck walking out of the dorm and a few blocks with that), text books, and basically anything we could grab.  If you are a college student with a suite and a key, please lock your door as it is not worth the risk.  Be safe everyone and don't let yourself be a target.   Funny, I started a subreddit several months back, for the purpose of getting answers just like these. *I'd had something stolen, and couldn't find an "Ask thieves" section on reddit, so made one:* /r/AskThieves. It's been locked (It was creeping me out how there were always 3 lurkers who wouldn't respond to anything posted, so I deleted everything and closed shop). In any case, I just unlocked it, if anyone's interested. There's nothing posted there right now, but I think it would be a helpful place to go if it had an actual population.

*I'm sure this will just be buried, but I might as well throw it out there.*

**EDIT:** Wow, the subreddit went from two subscribers (including myself), to 45. Sweet! 

*I'll have to be more careful as to what I post at the base of large threads in the future, as I honestly didn't think this would get a single view.* DELETED covered a lot, he is probably legit. I don't steal anymore at all but I used to a lot.

Alarm signs are the biggest deterrent.

I am going in through your front door. I am NOT going to check windows or creep into your backyard or any sketchy shit like that. The neighbors calling the cops is really the only danger.

I dress nicely in a collared shirt and slacks. I am white and clean cut. Fairly good looking. A bit like a police officer.

Your dog is useless. There is too much on the line to worry about fido. I have never been attacked by a dog but if I was... 

I look for houses with the LEAST viewpoints from the neighbors. Having an open front porch is your best defense.

Park in your garage. Parking in front of the garage is a telltale that there is likely no other car moving in and out of the garage and the driver is likely at work. I can tell because of the discoloration.

Pick up your newspapers.

Stop your mail and newspaper if you are leaving town.

If I pop the door and an alarm goes off I will probably leave.

Make friends with your neighbors so they know who should be at your house.

Going in and someone being home is TERRIFYING. I don't want to hurt anybody and I certainly don't want to get shot. Also the risk for getting caught just went from 3 years to 25. I will run screaming from the frailest old lady.

Again this isn't me anymore but perhaps it gives you some insight. Stay safe.

EDIT: I see some guys in here saying to have a robust door. I have never been stopped by a door. It is very easy to kick a door and I would carry a flat bar. A solid core door with heavily reinforced framing might work. Spend big if you want this to be a viable defense.

EDIT2: No I wouldn't want to hurt your dog but yes I would have if it attacked me. If you have an eight foot tall fire breathing dog then yes its probably a good deterrent. Make sure your dogs fire breathing is on point because none of us want your dog to get hurt.

Yes if you put a lot of effort into security it will deter thieves.

This comment blew up. Thank you all for the positive comments! 

Fuck you guys with the negative ones. It doesn't do anyone any good. I'm sure you are very tough! You probably shouldn't threaten my daughter. Walking up door to door pretending to be Jehova's witness is foolproof since nobody wants to talk to them.  Except I pretend not to be home and then they break in and I'm like hi But he said that works if you are a frail old lady. Gerontophobia, the struggle is real. Thanks for the info. What made you stop? A daughter. And goals.

When I was young I never had anything, my parents were addicts and I was pretty poor. I didn't have any familiarity with what life could be and the world consisted of people who had stuff and people like me who never had anything. There was no example of someone living well through hard work and honesty. My dad worked very hard and we scraped by but it was difficult to see any value in such a life.

Drug dealers and convicts seemed to live a fun and exciting life so that was the obvious route to street fame and some kind of a "nice" life. I was very good at it. The world had a clear delineation of wolves and sheep. Those in the system working hard and never getting anywhere and those like me taking what they wanted. I had platinum jewelry, cars, women, street cred, and all that shit. I also had increasingly long jail sentences and my stuff had a habit of disappearing. 

I ended up on parole and in an attempt to run my time out I went to a drug program and through there back to school.

It turns out I'm pretty smart and I have a knack for math. I took a career development class and the road to success was laid out for me. Do x,y,z and you can get a job making good money that doesn't disappear. No more prison. 

So now I have short, mid, and long term goals. It feels great to be succeeding in things that I want to do.

Ultimately I am on a path to expose my kid to the valuable aspects of life and set her on a path to success. ... Are you Ant-man? Marvel just took advertising to a whole new level! Fuck yea! Good on you mate

EDIT: I don't see anywhere that he said he has no remorse and doesn't regret what he did. Making assumptions and passing judgement doesn't make you a better person. We should celebrate someone being able to turn their life around regardless of their circumstances. A couple of sentences and you act like you know the guy. I bet you have never had a real struggle.

 /s ohhhh yeaaaah let's cruifify the guy, take all his options away, oh look now he's gone back to old ways to try make ends meet because no one has every shown him more than what he knows /s Your door comment remind me what my dad has taught me, "Locks just keep honest people honest." I like my apartment manager. A resident asked her why it's not a gated community and she said, "gates don't keep the bad people out, they just make it harder for friends and family to get in. " She's bad ass. Thank you for a serious answer. 
Question, what area were you don't this in? Do you think living in an area on known for having guns in most houses would make you less likely to break in any where, add steps to ensure people aren't home, or have no effect?

Any stories of people being home you could share? Were you ever caught? California, east bay.

Having guns in your house makes you a much bigger target. I once watched a house for two months before I hit it BECAUSE I was tipped off that he had a gun collection. The gun nut keyboard warriors in this thread are laughable. 

Weapons are difficult to get for criminals and also have a high value in criminal culture. Your circle needs to have them in order not to be abused by other circles. 

I was never caught for residential burglary and I can't remember anyone ever being home. I have class in ten minutes but I might type out some stories later. please do. This is incredible insight into a life I never see This is why you don't blab to everyone you know that you have firearms. Gangs in my city will have 8th graders go for smash and grabs on houses just to get their hands on guns.  &gt;I dress nicely in a collared shirt and slacks. I am white and clean cut. Fairly good looking. A bit like a police officer.

Man when I picture people burglarizing my house, I picture a guy with  a ski mask wearing a black and white striped shirt holding a giant burlap sack with a huge dollar sign on it.  Thanks for clearing that up. Do you live in McDonald's? Cause that kinda sounds like the Hamburglar.  Well, someone did burgle all of my hams. Once you break into a house successfully, are there any items the person might own that makes you leave the house immediately? I'm not sure what that could possibly be. Maybe if they had a dismembered corpse hanging in the front room. Serious: what if you broke into a home (that seemed to be decently-kept on the outside) and it turned out to be a hoarder's house?

I don't mean some clutter on the dining room table, I mean a *hoarder's* house. I would probably leave. That's pretty gross. Yay! My special treasures are safe! Cool. Oh, wait. Dismembered? BRB. Nickelback album. An entire room devoted to pictures of the burglar with the eyes poked out. &gt; I see some guys in here saying to have a robust door. I have never been stopped by a door. It is very easy to kick a door and I would carry a flat bar. A solid core door with heavily reinforced framing might work. Spend big if you want this to be a viable defense.

Anybody who has ever played a game of D&amp;D knows this: the most solid door in the world doesn't mean a damn thing when you put it in a wall that my grandmother could knock down. (I mean, she's dead and all... but with D&amp;D, that's not as much of an impediment as you might expect.)

Also, if you make your door out of adamantine, adventurers *will* steal it. Shit sells for millions. That part might not apply as well to the real world, though. I've only played like 3 or 4 sessions of D&amp;D and I'm realizing that there's so many things I've never even considered trying when confronted with a door. I mostly just tried to hit it and then the DM got annoyed with me because there's so many cool little alternative things and we're missing all of them because all we know how to do is roll for initiative. Your first campaign is a freebie, nobody knows anything their first game. You're not allowed to play a second campaign, though, until you can list at least ten reasons to carry a five-pound bag of flour on your person at all times during an adventure. 1) It explodes. 

2) Invisible enemies. 

3) Bread. 

4) It explodes. 

5) Reagents? 

6) Barter

7) It explodes. 

8) Secret doors.

9) Discovering traps. 

10) It explodes.  Things every adventurer should have on their person:

* Some form of axe capable of chopping wood

* A metal pan, for cooking. You could also try to find a large stone nearby and use that as a cooking surface.

* 5lb. Bag of Flour, you may not find things to hunt or otherwise fill your belly, get some water from a stream and make some food. 

* A waterskin / canteen, because you have a powerful need to drink.

* A backpack / traveler's bag, self-explanatory I would assume.

* AT LEAST 50ft of rope or **preferably** chain (chain won't fray while rappelling down/climbing up something that could leave you shattered and miserable, chain can also make an effective impromptu weapon but it also very heavy)  **with a grappling hook**

* **TORCHES** or at the very least, rags and flasks of oil; gather sticks, wrap sticks in rags, douse in pitch/oil, voila you got a torch.

* More rope. Seriously.

* A pry bar /crowbar, because prying shit open with your sword is a good way to not have a sword anymore. 

* A bedroll, unless you like sleeping on rocks, dirt, and dungeon floors.

* Flint + Steel or some other kind of firestarter, unless you're a mage you won't be able to cook, stay warm, or light torches without it. 

* Peasant's clothing, sometimes it's better not to look important or powerful. 

* **healer's kits** and your respective class tools e.g. a rogue's thieve tools

* A mirror, useful for checking behind you, signalling, peeking around/under/over things, and grooming.

* **MORE ROPE**

* a 10ft pole (collapsible if the DM allows), sometimes you want to poke things and they explode. Also good for vaulting over stuff. 

* and finally, and most importantly, a quick wit and creativity. A pry bar can be used for much more than prying things, it makes a handy shovel in a pinch and a half-decent hook if your grapple is somehow lost. A torch can be multi-purposed as a flaming club. Flour can be tossed at difficult to see enemies. A flask of oil and a rag make a molotov. It's D&amp;D, your only limit is your imagination and your DM. 

---

Since this gained some traction, I thought I'd edit to say that this is of course dependent on your setting, what kind of dungeon master you have(like whether or not they let you start with a wagon or pack mule, and whether they think your characters should eat, drink, and rest every 12 hours, 8 hours, or not at all).

Here's a *very basic* standard kit for adventurers, this is from the 3.5 edition Player's Handbook IIRC
&gt;Backpack, Bedroll, Belt Pouch, Flint &amp; Steel, Hooded Lantern with three pints of Oil, Trail Rations for seven days, Sack, Waterskin, and a Whetstone  
Cost: 16 gold  
Weight: 27 lb. First off, I'm not coming in at night while you're asleep. (The hypothetical "I'm" because nobody sane admits to criminal behavior, so I'm definitely just a kid on the internet trying to sound cool.) I'm coming during the work day when nobody's home. But just to be on the safe side since some burglars are also rapists and murderers, sleep with your burglar alarm set. Most alarms have an "instant" setting where they'll go off right away if a door is opened, as opposed to that 60-second countdown to give you time to enter the alarm code. Even if you can't afford to pay a monitoring company to actually monitor your alarm, still get one installed that makes tons of noise, and post alarm signs everywhere.

If I am coming to murder and rape you at night (in addition to stealing your belongings) I'm coming in the back door, not the front. Your neighbors can see your front door, so if I kick it in, they see a broken front door if they happen to look out their window, but how often do you see your neighbors' back door? Your front porch light is great for letting me know you're home and will probably stop me from walking by to check if you forgot to lock it, but if I'm breaking in at night, I know you're home already. Keep your back porch light on, have some floodlights installed in the back yard. If you like dogs, get a mean-ass dog. If you don't, still post signs saying you have a mean-ass dog. I'm not worried about getting eaten by your dog, but if he one of those annoying ones that barks up a storm, I'll leave before he gets me caught.

You can find some how-to about this on the internet: People can supposedly get your garage door open from the outside if you don't get some zip ties and secure the emergency catch. I've never done that, but the theory that it could be done makes sense. If someone's in your garage, they can close the garage door and have all the time in the world away from prying eyes to work on getting into your home. Or just stealing your cars and power tools.

Deadbolts are great, but your lock hardware is usually attached to your doorframe with tiny screws, so a good kick will bust the whole contraption out no matter how hefty the actual bolt is or how awesome your door is. You want to replace those tiny screws with insanely long, durable ones. Again, internet can help with this. They also sell these funny cane-looking things you can wedge below your doorknob to make kicking in your door tougher. They don't really work, but if a guy is stupid and desperate and tries a few kicks and can't get the door open enough, he might just move on versus making more noise and risking notice.

But seriously, nobody breaks in at night. I'm going to drive out to an upper middle class suburban neighborhood off the beaten path during the day. You know how you paid extra for that house with the 45 minute commute to work because of all the trees, hiking trails, and being farther from the traffic and bustle of town? Unless you're paying HOA dues out the butt for constant patrols, you're pretty unprotected. That's the kind of neighborhood I'm visiting. I'm going to watch your house and a few others on your street for a few days and see when people come and go. Once I'm pretty comfortable that you work a normal 9-5 and don't come home for lunch and your neighbors mostly do the same, I'm going for either your garage or the back door, probably around mid-morning, maybe noon-ish. I might have a tool belt (great for carrying useful tools and also passing myself off as a handy-man, cable guy, a guy who reads meters, or something similar in the rare case that someone sees me).

I'm not after your TV. Who the hell can walk into a house and walk out with a 57 inch LCD display that you probably wall-mounted, making me spend an hour getting it down? It's whatever I can grab in 10 minutes or less and carry out with me easily. If you own guns or jewelry or valuable portable electronics, hide them, get a safe, etc. Now if you let me sneak into your garage, I might just park my car in there, close the garage door, and spend an hour loading whatever I can fit into my trunk. A lot of people don't think that hard about securing their garage when it's a pretty good point of entry, plus you have some valuable stuff in there. Some houses even have little screen doors going from their yard into the garage. If you have an attached garage, get rid of that crap. Surround your house with outward facing treadmills A cop once told me that if you have to leave your house at any time, when you get in your car, roll down the window's as you're backing out and wave to your house as if you're waving to someone who's still home and waving back.  Often times, burglars wait in neighbourhoods and watch for people leaving.  If they see you waving and saying goodbye to your house they may just believe someone is still home and it could deter them from trying to rob your place Don't own a house. Don't own anything worth stealing Fuck it, just don't own anything Easy there, Marx. [deleted] I once had my unlocked car rummaged through and they stole my coupon for a free sandwich at Safeway.  Reinforce your doors, jams, and hinges. Your doors should be nice security doors. The hinge should be a piano hinge running the full length of the door with lots of very long screws. The jam should be reinforced with a steel plate running the full length of the door, again with lots of very long screws.

Use serious locks. Medeco and Abloy make good locks--this will be expensive. You may also consider using a double cylinder lock (keyhole on both sides of the door), so that once the robber gets in through the window, anything they take must leave through the window. However, if your house catches on fire, your chances of being able to leave it will be much lower.

Put security film over your windows and invest in good window locks. Try to defeat the lock on your own windows. Sometimes window locks suck. If you use bars or wood blocking the track, make sure they are non-magnetic and can't be dislodged by slamming the window open. Those crappy clamp locks that go on the track are great for holding a bar or wooden dowel securely in the track. Don't use said clamps as actual window locks.

Mount security cameras outside--preferably with large blinking LEDs.

Plant something nasty, with large thorns, in front of your windows. Thick bushes can be effective if they're so thick that one can't hide in them.

An alarm system is a lot of hassle, but it'll make your house robbery proof if you also do all of the above.

After all that, don't lose your keys or set your house on fire. No one is getting in. Going through the window with a pickaxe will be cheaper than hiring a locksmith to spend four hours drilling your lock. [deleted] doesn't matter, stuff not stolen Confederate flag. It says not only do you own many guns, but you really want an excuse to use it

Edit: it's a joke m8s, calm your tits This also says I have guns you can steal and sell on the blackmarket.
 This was my thought. A gun is worth more than a tv I know you're joking, but guns are worth a lot, and making it obvious you own a lot of them is a bad idea if trying to avoid being robbed.  You are absolutely correct. Of the 4 people I have known that have had their houses broken into all of them owned at least one gun. Every single gun was stolen from my uncle who had 15 or so guns. My favorite was my neighbor, who when he first moved in put a sign in his window that he owned a gun and would shoot anyone breaking in. Within two weeks his house was broken into and his gun collection was stolen.

Guns are worth a lot on the black market, especially clean guns. But then you have a Confederate flag at your house, so I'm not sure it's worth it. Make it harder to get in your house than your neighbor's house. I worked in security (ADT) And here's what I found on how burglars would case.

They'd walk your street like a Mormon or some other business person, very professional, and hang door hangs or other things like info tracks, whatever. This would be the day they hit. They would walk a street, both sides and do this. Then walk back through (having already been casing for a while).

What they look for is a block of houses that still have the hangs on. That suggests that no one is home in that surrounding area, so no one can see. Then they 9/10 times go through the front door. 

A security sign will 90% of the time deter them. If you have a security sign, and your neighbor doesn't; guess who the burglar is going to try to break into.

DONT let the security system company put your touchpad anywhere that can be seen from a window, either the regular windows, or the ones beside doors.. If they can see it, and you left it off, they can see that too.

Getting into a garage is extremely easy, and no one ever locks the door from the garage to the house. I have sold more security systems by demonstrating the ease of getting into a garage. Go to your garage door, and press firmly towards the top, does it open enough to see up into it? Then they can break in. With a coathanger they can grab the red string and up goes the door. So cut your garage string/rope. You have a remote and don't need it.

I can't think of anything else that wasn't said, but feel free to ask! This guy who took a photo of a Weasel riding on the back of a bird. http://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-31722410 A guy winning the lottery while re-enacting winning the lottery:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6R5MqxcKdV8
(note: annoying sound for first 15 sec)

The full story: he was a truck driver who got into an accident at work, had a severe allergic reaction and heart attack, and went into a coma for 12 days. Then he woke up and won the lottery. A local TV station decided to do a feel-good piece on him coming back from the dead and winning the lottery, so they had him go back to the shop where he bought the scratcher and re-enact his winning moment. The scratcher in the re-enactment was worth even more than the first one. If there were a global balance of good fortune, some guy just bought his tenth lemon car. I don't know, the accident and heart attack might have prepaid some of that. He seems like a real nice guy, I hope he does well in life. He starts crying, damn. Good for you, man. Good for you. They should do a "Re-enactment of the Re-enactment" Lottery won't allow it on account of probable divine intervention.  That's just amazing. I hope he's as nice as he seems because if he is then the world got one right for once. That is what gratitude looks like. I'm a happy person for the rest of today now, thanks to that video! Thank you [Delavan's Comet of 1914.](http://articles.adsabs.harvard.edu/cgi-bin/nph-iarticle_query?bibcode=1914PA.....22..579M&amp;db_key=AST&amp;page_ind=1&amp;data_type=GIF&amp;type=SCREEN_VIEW&amp;classic=YES)

[It has an orbital period of 24 million years.](https://books.google.com/books?id=gPgSCCsJMGQC&amp;pg=PA32&amp;lpg=PA32&amp;dq=delavan%27s+comet+24+million&amp;source=bl&amp;ots=dCq4lie5E1&amp;sig=MbOmjP0-jsqI78ksBoJbg2t9CCw&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=sYtGVb-HD8eRoQTHsYDoCQ&amp;ved=0CB8Q6AEwAA#v=onepage&amp;q=delavan's%20comet%2024%20million&amp;f=false)

[Here's an additional article from Harvard, from where I got the picture.](http://adsabs.harvard.edu/full/1914PA.....22..535B)

Edit: Added link to orbit period, and changed the year - it's actually 1914! There's a Planet Earth episode, I believe the one on mountains, where they got footage of a snow leopard for the first time. Before that footage, I think there had only been a few sightings of the animal.  After that the cameramen went back to Northern Pakistan to find the Snow leopard again and track it. They made another documentary on that cat! The emotional trauma of him having to stay in a single place for months to find this leopard was insane.  And then he didn't even take the picture! Sometimes he just lets the moment happen man. You wanna play some kick ball? If you don't we'll be one man short.... Same with the guy who filmed the BIrd of Paradise mating dance. Think that was 3 or so months of waiting to get about 20 seconds of film. Oh really? I'll have to check that out.  It's called Snow Leopard Beyond the Myth: https://youtu.be/vyKEYZWT2QA [deleted] [deleted] Also to anyone interested, the entire series is on Netlfix. [deleted] [deleted] [This video](https://youtu.be/TfvmbDOeo70) was on the front page 2 years ago. At [0:03](https://youtu.be/TfvmbDOeo70?t=3s), you can see the boulder start rolling off the top of the mountain, and it almost crushes the car below at [0:20](https://youtu.be/TfvmbDOeo70?t=20s). I love the ending there. He just starts backin' up like "hmm, maybe not going that way". 