Same just happened in the Finnish elections. Except once it hit the news, several more people came forward and stated they had voted for a candidate that got 0 recorded votes in their district, so this looks suspicious. And then what happened? He has made a police report and a complaint to the regional administrative court. This was just a couple of weeks ago so nothing has happened on that side yet (or at least has not been reported).

The local election authorities have also tried to locate his vote, with no success.

Apparently he voted in advance. I think those ballot envelopes are sent via postal service so it could've gone missing there as well.

Finnish sources: [YLE news article on the police report and complaint](http://yle.fi/uutiset/aanen_katoaminen_vaaleissa_johti_rikosilmoitukseen_ja_valitukseen/7959076), [initial YLE news article on the missing vote](http://yle.fi/uutiset/vaaliehdokas_yritti_aanestaa_itseaan__aani_katosi_jaljettomiin/7953002), [Ilta-Sanomat article](http://www.iltasanomat.fi/vaalit2015/art-1429934686769.html)

(edit: was an advance vote) I think the worrying issue is that I have no idea if the elections in my country are legitimate. How do I check?  Run for office, vote for yourself, and tell nobody. I know in some locations mail-in votes aren't counted unless they could make a difference in the outcome. It's possible this could be the case here if they have similar procedures.  No such procedure is used in Finland ([PDF](http://www.finlex.fi/en/laki/kaannokset/1998/en19980714.pdf) of Election Act).

This also wasn't a mail-in vote per se, but [an advance vote](http://www.vaalit.fi/en/index/generalinformation/voting/votinginadvance/instructionsforvotinginadvance.html). There are no mail-in votes here as an election official is always required to be present when voting. Advance votes are always counted first in Finland. Finland, a hotbed of electoral fraud. *sauna First I found it to sound ridicilous but then I realized he had a point, its not very likely that he had literally zero votes. Even if he didn't vote for himself and even if he did zero campaigning, it's very statistically improbable to receive zero votes in a large enough constituency. Always people who just vote on random or put down the wrong name. Especially because TUSC are out there, but they aren't *that* out there. They're probably the biggest left of Labour party other than the Greens. Even in a wealthier area there's got to be at least a few 18 years olds who are idealistic enough to vote for them Yup, I stood as a paper candidate (basically for bulking up numbers rather than intending to win), no campaigning for my election at all and I still got around 60 votes.  Were you standing for a party? yis a small one  Liberal Democrats? Nah he was representing the Conservatives in Scotland  Ouch :O We had over 100 people vote for a dead guy in ~~Belfast~~ *Hampstead and Kilburn*, so I agree with you.

Source: [Belfast Telegraph](/http://www.belfasttelegraph.co.uk/breakingnews/offbeat/113-people-vote-for-dead-candidate-31205800.html) Don't they normally suspend the election with a death? I know of a candidate in this election who was deceased at the time of the election (and this was noted on the ballot forms) and he still received about 100 votes. There was a case in the US a few years back where a deceased candidate was actually elected. It was rigged  by someone completely incompetent. The  guy knows he voted for himself and if they can't count just a few thousand votes correctly, that's a problem. It sounds like a British comedy, "You're actually so bad of a politician, not only did no one vote for you, someone actually voted against you, cancelling out your one, and only, vote" I remember in the Romney-Obama election there was a voting block of 1500 where Romney got 0 votes.  Suspect as hell but then it came out that it was 100% black, then everyone just laughed. Bit suspicious never heard of someone getting no votes in any election before  Well even 3 votes is laughable. However, saying no votes when there are votes is indeed a reason to call for a recall of votes. Especially when people are claiming to have voted for him (Or he is being lied to which would suck even more) &gt; Well even 3 votes is laughable.

That seems harsh.  I have to grant a bit of respect to almost anyone who puts themselves on the line in an election.  Every race has a last place finisher. It's laughable in a sad kind of way. That few votes means that your friends, family, and campaign staff didn't even vote for you. I'm pretty sure candidates who end up with 3 votes didn't have campaign staff. Hey, his three votes *were* from his staff!  His mom and dad were very proud of him and helped every step of the way. Yeah, if he can laugh about it then I'd laugh with him.  It sounds like he doesn't find it too funny though... ;) As a rule, if you intend to falsify elections, you must give your opponents at least 2 votes. It is almost guaranteed the opponent voted for himself, and, it is likely others voted for him as well. 

"No votes" is extremely able to be proven false. One vote is also able to be proven false, because all you need is one other person claiming to have voted for him. Two votes, though, introduces plausible deniability, and sows distrust among supporters. All supporters KNOW they voted, and KNOW candidate voted, but will then entertain the idea that everyone else lost their gumption at the last minute. 

You should never give a candidate less than two votes if you're rigging the vote-counts.   Absolutely.  This is a lot like when accountants will worry about the books being out by 5 cents.  People will glibly say, "I'll give you the %$%$ 5 cents".

But that's not the point.  The balance book being out by 5 cents is a glaring error that something is wrong.  And wrong is bad, and usually very bad, in such a case.

If this guy honestly voted for himself but that vote was not recorded, this is a very clear sign that the vote count is invalid.  This would warrant a recount IMO.  (If some legal opinion comes around saying that my opinion is unwarranted then, well, sigh, the law's f*cked in this situation).

OTOH, if this guy is bullshitting then he deserves public shaming and ridicule. 
&gt;Absolutely.  This is a lot like when accountants will worry about the books being out by 5 cents.  People will glibly say, "I'll give you the %$%$ 5 cents".

Accountant here. If an account reconciles to within 5 cents, I'd either carry that balance as unreconciled or write it off. It's almost certainly human error at some point in the chain, and sometimes it can take *hours* to figure out where that 5 cent variance comes from. It's not worth the time to look, so long as everything else appears fine.

Edit: for clarity, I wasn't trying to say that the voting shouldn't be looked into. Just that the metaphor wasn't necessarily correct. CPA here. Couldn't agree more. Both the partner and client would slap me if I even suggested trying to close a $0.05 variance.  Nobody wants to see accountant-on-accountant violence.  Actually, yes we do.  In fact, I'd even pay 5 for that. "You used LIFO instead of FIFO? That's it, bring it on." You couldn't balance a book even if you put a pocket bible on your head. Oh yeah.... 

Well....

I slept with your wife Q3 2014. &gt;I slept with your wife Q3 2014.

I don't see that in your billable hours report? Are you working off clock again? AND CAN YOU PLEASE CHECK THE DAMN WORKPAPERS IN!!!!   My stock price rose 110% in Q3 2014, analysts say it was due to "Your mother". I got this joke,  my business degree was worth it after all.  I am not and I still know it's Last In First Out, and First In First Out. So, a stack and a queue?  Why is one wrong though? Is this about interest rates? [deleted] I'll up that ante.
   
[$(5)$] Me too.

[$(   )$] [$(   )$] CFO here. Send me the 5 cents. I don't think this is really a valid comparison...this is an election, not 5 cents to reconcile in an account. Even if it's just one vote it's a public system that elects public officials, it needs to be accurate and trustworthy to all living in that region.

*Hey reddit, I'm still not over you hiding individual upvote/downvote comment counts. Fuck you guys, I hope you each step on a lego once a day until you die. Two a day for you EP.

**Language revised to clarify. Talking about the individual upvote/downvote counts that reddit removed from visibility with RES, not the hidden overall count thing. Its a bit more complicated than that.

The count needs to be accurate enough to give people confidence in the system and confidence that the person who was recognized as the winner was really the person who won in actuality.

So in this case, if by some act of unlikely probability the three votes for this guy got dropped on the floor... well he is still the loser and so the result is unaffected.

BUT the probability that these three particular votes disappeared and no others did is vanishingly small and so the unlikely nature of the event brings the entire result into question. &gt; BUT the probability that these three particular votes disappeared and no others did is vanishingly small and so the unlikely nature of the event brings the entire result into question.

In fairness, we're not positive other votes weren't dropped as well.  But there would need to be a significant number of missed votes before losing all three of his wasn't a statistical oddity.
 The fact that other votes were likely dropped is the reason to want a recount. It's not a matter of this candidate wanting to add 3 to his total. It's that somewhere along the line votes weren't being counted and likely a lot of votes weren't being counted. I would assume that at least he and his wife voted together, and maybe his father as well, so the votes would all be in the same box. If that's the case, it might be that there was just a problem with that one box, which would significantly shorten the odds on this happening. Certainly although I think losing a box is cause for a recount. These three votes are the canary votes.  If they don't show up then someone dropped the ball (or box of votes). Never put accountants in metaphorical situations. They are a very exact clan, they are the rock that financial analysts waves break against.  

Normal people: [about accountants] His people are completely literal. Metaphors go over his head. 

Accountants: *Nothing* goes over my head...! My reflexes are too fast, I would catch it.

 Well apparently they don't care about 5 cents plus or minus. "Exact" my ass. We have materiality set based on the company. Sometimes that 5 cents is 500 dollars, sometimes 5 million, sometimes 20 million. We pass on fixing anything under that threshold (with exceptions) 20 some years ago, I worked in the back office of Union Bank of Switzerland in NYC.  One of my responsibilities was internal comptroller of the operations department.  My first year, I was off by a million dollars.  Needless to say I was scared shitless.  The accounting dept looked at me like I was crazy and told me not to worry.  No one ever said a word. Can confirm materiality varies by company size. I work for a Big Four firm on a company with ~30B in net assets. Their materiality is ~120M, and de minimus is ~8M. Our department also has companies with materiality in the thousands, so it all depends on how large the business is. When working for the pentagon it is a trillion dollars. Software developer that's worked on Financial software here.  I've tracked down the cause of those "5 cent" discrepancies, only to find that the 5 cent discrepancy in the total can easily mean hundreds, even thousands, of dollars of discrepancy at the account/client level that conveniently gets balanced out to being only a few cents off.

Sometimes the 5 cents is only 5 cents, sometimes that 5 cents is a symptom of something much larger.  It may not seem worth spending hundreds of dollars worth of man-hours researching those 5 cents, until one of those instances uncovers thousands of dollars of discrepancies. One day, in August 1986, his supervisor, Dave Cleveland, asked him to resolve a US$0.75 accounting error in the computer usage accounts. He traced the error to an unauthorized user who had apparently used up 9 seconds of computer time and not paid for it, and eventually realized that the unauthorized user was a hacker who had acquired root access to the LBNL system by exploiting a vulnerability in the movemail function of the original GNU Emacs.  

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Cuckoo%27s_Egg I just wanted to reply and say thank-you, I've just ordered this book on Amazon and it looks exciting  \^_\^ . It's a great read. I need to read it again. Yep.  Booking one product 10k higher and the second 9999 lower results in a $1 difference in the subtotal.  But if they come from different buckets...or one is taxable and the other isn't...ugh And sometimes that 5 cent error means someone has hacked in to your systems.
http://www.amazon.com/The-Cuckoos-Egg-Tracking-Espionage/dp/1416507787
 
&gt;Sometimes the 5 cents is only 5 cents, sometimes that 5 cents is a symptom of something much larger.  It may not seem worth spending hundreds of dollars worth of man-hours researching those 5 cents, until one of those instances uncovers thousands of dollars of discrepancies.

That's why periodic account reconciliation is so important. You've got a general ledger account on your books that has a balance of $X. You then need evidence to independently calculate that balance. Bank statements or AP/AR ledgers, for example. Does your evidence support the GL balance? If it does, you're golden. Move onto the next account. If not, there's either a missing transaction(s) or something is entered incorrectly (or, heavens forbid, a software error). Now you roll up your sleeves and figure out where the problem lies. Fair enough.  Having worked retail, I know 5 cents really is often nothing.

The "5 cents" is verbatim from an accounting student back at college.  The real world is different.  [Serious] What would a good real-world example be?  $1?  $10? ... ?

Of course, this depends on the context.  In some places, even that 5 cents would matter.  In others $50 might not.

How about 3 cases:

   * A cashier at a Walmart.
   * The whole Walmart store for the business day
   * [skipping a few levels] Amazon.com over 24 hours (or one unit/department thereof if they're separated).  Is even 1 cent error acceptable for all-electronic transactions?

Or just roll your eyes and wonder why reddit lets people like me on.  That's okay, too.  :)
 [deleted] I never worked at Walmart, but did work as a service desk clerk in a supermarket in high school (it was probably comparable to a Walmart). Part of my job was running reports and reconciling various counts at COB (checks, lottery ticket sales, money transfers, all sorts of things).

Anyway, to throw an answer at your second bullet, our gross income used to be about $150,000/day, $200,000 on Sunday, our busiest day. Highest I ever saw was over $300,000 on the day before Thanksgiving.

Fortunately, most of that income was electronic via credit and debit cards, so we never had to count that much :) It does depend a lot on context. What is the nature of the account being reconciled? The materiality threshold (where you *need* to investigate variances) is different for different kinds of accounts. With cash accounts, the threshold is low. Even so, it wouldn't be unheard of to write off/on a balance of $10 on a several million dollar account. Of course, the goal is always to have no variance when you reconcile an account.

On the other hand, other times things get messier when you're dealing with estimates or incomplete information. The company I work for purchased a company in the latter half of last year. We were integrating the purchased company with our own, so we had to combine our accounting books. We integrated their books as of a certain cutoff date, then began moving over their separate operations into our currently existing ones. Because it's tricky to have a 100% accurate account balances on very short notice, there were things that were slightly incorrect on their books that were integrated into ours. Their accounts payable liability account had several items in it that had been paid already before the cutoff date. This required us to eventually write off the ~$70,000 balance, as there was no liability to be paid. That's a more unusual example, and there are specific ways that is dealt with during purchase accounting. as a walmart cashier i can say that even being under 5 cents warrants a write-up (in canada, at my store, at least). shrinkage is something important to walmart and they try really hard to prevent it. im terrible at math so its a rough night when i have to count my cash/close Good lord.  When I worked at meijer (Walmart Jr,  mostly in Michigan,  Indiana,  Ohio etc)  as a cashier, they gave us $5 per shift to play with with customers. It was awesome. 

"this rang up as 3.49, but it should be 2.69"

K. Done. No reason to hold up a line of people over a few dollars  You'd do a price adjustment and your till would still be correct, I doubt if your till was missing $5 every shift they'd let that fly. True, there was definitely a paper trail, so just guess it was accounted for.  My point was just that amounts much larger than 5 cents are allowable.  Tracking down 5 cents wouldn't have been a big deal We had the same thing at Best Buy. You could be $5 off and be fine. Greater than $20 or $50 (can't recall which one) and it was an automatic firing. If it costs a manager an hour to write-up, it tends to be negligible. 

If the manager is getting say, 10 per hour, and till assistant on 6 per hour till is down 4, if the manager needs to do a formal write-up, which often includes sitting the employee down to discuss how/why the till is down and how to prevent future errors takes 30 mins of manager doing the paperwork for it, and 30 mins for the manager and employee to have the sit-down write-up, that's 12 of company time lost. 

On the other hand, it takes less than 5 minutes for the manager to say to the employee "Your till is down 4, make sure you run things through correctly and give the right change." 

If however it's consistently down over a period of time, then a formal write-up would be needed to assess the pattern and make a decision on how to respond to the till being down as a form of loss prevention. Don't forget that the write-up is a deterrence.  It may cost more per hour to do the write-up than the value of the money lost.  However, it saves the company money in the long run by enforcing the rule.  It's the same reason we will prosecute a shoplifter who stole $50 worth of merchandise even if the amount of money it costs the public may be more than $50.  We want to send a message that you just cannot get away with it.  A good real world example depends on both the size and the function of the company you're accounting for. I did some student accounting work for a golf course, and being a hundred bucks off on the balance sheet at the end of the month was a big deal. My brother is an accountant for Wells Fargo, and in a lot of instances where he doesn't even start looking for errors until you get into the millions of dollars range. Part of it is the disparity in sums (I'm trying to account for fifty thousand dollars worth of stuff happening, he's accounting for billions), but part of it is also in the nature of the transactions you handle. Because there is some flexibility in how you report what is presently a debit or a credit versus what will be a debit or credit in the future in the financial sector, there will be some variance in how much these accounts are reportedly "worth", so as all this information gets compiled by different people and fed up the food chain, you'll start getting discrepancies, but so long as it looks like everyone stuck to GAAP, you kind of just have to call it good. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for those wondering When I worked at Wendy's 20 years ago a writeup was your drawer being off by $2 or more. 3 strikes and you're fired. My bank has/had a policy of $15 before we needed to investigate it. A lesser figure would maybe warrant another teller having a look, but as soon as it was apparent we were wasting time, we would forget about it.

For me, it was the worst. I was 10c under on my 3rd morning. During my lunch break I methodically traced back my transactions (both my physical actions and my electronic evidence) until I remembered how I lost 10c.  Well? How did you lose those 10c. You can't just leave us hanging here, OP... Also an accountant here. I'd have to disagree. I chase down every penny that's off. In my experience it's about 50/50 transcription errors and legitimate errors that need to be corrected. Granted we may work in different industries. Just my experience.  The materiality principle states that an accounting standard can be ignored if the net impact of doing so has such a small impact on the financial statements that a reader of the financial statements would not be misled. Five cents could easily be the difference between how two different systems are set up to round fractions of cents after percentile modifications, such as tax or interest.  You start to get a feel for what in your system is a systemic discrepancy or a real problem.

My books have two different daily totals that are supposed to be dead equal every day, and I'm required to do routine of research and reports when they're not.  Only problem is that one of them handles rounding on Internet sales differently than the other, resulting in occasional one cent differences.  We all know it, but I need to establish every time that it isn't something else. [You never know what's behind a minor accounting error](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Cuckoo's_Egg_(book\)). Most amazing part of that story is the guy only got 1-3 years prison and was released early on probation. For hacking US Military targets on behalf of the KGB. Pull some shit like that today and you'd be locked up and tortured for life in a maximum security prison. Hell, just joke about it on reddit, say something like "I work in the defense industry  and I'm selling secrets," and the NSA will come kick down your d The nsa must've kicked this guy's dick in so hard The NSA doesn't kick dicks, they steal dick pics I actually read that book once upon a time.  I was thinking of less nefarious examples but this counts too.

&gt; an unauthorized user who had apparently used up 9 seconds of computer time and not paid for it

Paying for computer time.  That brings back memories.  Fix some typo in your program and compiling (ie making/building it) and then running it would cost 7 cents of your $100 budget for the semester.

Of all the computers involved in just me typing and sending this message and /u/quartern reading it, I'm sure that's way more total CPU than me running that little bubble sort program years ago.  But I digress. &gt; Paying for computer time. That brings back memories

Yeah.. I remember yesterday when I was paying amazon for computer time... Sigh.. good times.. Or was it this morning..? I once had to pay to use a serial farm.

... Ok, no I didn't.

It was publicly funded.

 Well, in a way we still have that. Only, nowadays everyone has a regular computer, but sometimes it's necessary to budget funds/time for supercomputing time, depending on the availability at your workplace. I live in Nigeria for the time being, and pay 1000 Naira (about 5 USD) per GB. Budgeting for internet traffic is real! Budgeting for traffic is still relatively common. Budgeting for *time*, which is what the parent comments are talking about, is far less so. They're talking about being charged for periods of time the computer is doing calculations, which was common on mainframe computing in universities up through as late as the early 90s, and is reflected in a way in how some cloud computing providers (like amazon web services) charge for compute time even today.  Wow. That's amazing. 

I think I'm going to watch the movie based on this tonight. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EcKxaq1FTac The hacker apparently spent less than three years in prison for spying on the US for the KGB. Nowadays, he'd probably spend a lifetime in a secret detention camp somewhere. How times change. And this was during the Cold War, too. Whenever my code does some minor weird thing, I've learned to follow that up. There's usually a much bigger bug behind it. Good advice to any fellow coders that made it this deep into a discussion in /r/worldnews :)

(But it is good advice, though.  And write a unit test before you fix the error, of course.) A mistake plus Keleven gets you home by seven! &gt; Well even 3 votes is laughable.

3 more votes than you got!  How laughable now Mr/Ms little no votes. But, he's got 2755 *up*votes, doesn't that count? Surely he isn't lying to himself about his own vote though. At first, I was sure this guy was a fool, but if you think about it, if he did vote for himself and still got no votes, there was a mistake or foul play and it could be huge.  They did say that there were 19 void votes. Would be a fair coincidence that all three were voided.  I was friends with a write in candidate for the mayoral election in dc and they said if the candidate didn't get a significant number of votes, they would not announce the count, which I thought was some bullshit. I can understand that. Announcing all the write-ins could take forever. It should be made public record. However. They do that for a reason. Do you have any idea how many bullshit candidates get votes in an election like that? It happened in Finland a while ago. Votes get lost etc. due to human error.

Here's an article about the "lost vote incident" in Finland (...in Finnish) http://yle.fi/uutiset/vaaliehdokas_yritti_aanestaa_itseaan__aani_katosi_jaljettomiin/7953002 He eventually got 13 (!) votes. That isn't sloppiness of one counter anymore. It's systematic.
http://www.vaalikone.fi/eduskunta2015/tulos/0-04/ehdokas/57

In previous elections in Finland, there were dozens of votes counted wrong. One reporter proved around 100 "ghost votes" only in Helsinki. The system is advertised as foolproof and supposedly bureaucracy prevents all wrong doings. The whole line of the counting system was interviewed, but everyone acted surprised and diminished the problem.
http://yle.fi/aihe/artikkeli/2011/02/03/haamuaanet

I find this deeply concerning.  In the US Al Franken was trailing by a count of 215 votes, then it turned out 900+ votes had been wrongfully discarded and he won by 225 votes.  Almost 3 million people voted in that race and the difference was 200 either way with possibly fraudulent throw aways. [deleted] Almost makes you wonder if it was his plan all along to identify election fraud.

...actually, I wonder if it would be worthwhile for candidates to appear just for that sole purpose... Recounts are pretty common and don't necessarily have anything to do with fraud. Ballot papers are counted by hand, and people make mistakes. I don't know for other countries, but in France the "work" of counting votes is done for free by anyone willing to participate, and it's pretty easy to understand mostly people that are seriously interested by politics accept to do it, and there HAS to be an important part of them who just accept it so they can try and cheat a little. I dunno, may be just me but this system has always seemed very wrong to me. It's a paid job here. Normally done by people who work for the council year round who offer to do it for about 10 an hour.  But how would he ensure no one else voted for him? By running for Trade Union and Socialist Coalition. At least that one he gave himself. &gt; Mr Dennis, a train conductor, said his wife and father had pledged their support too, The Mirror reported.

I can imagine an awkward moment there. Good thing they don't have Thanksgiving dinners in Europe. They wouldn't bring it up either, just tut whenever the other person leaves earshot. Makes it better he got 0 votes instead of just 1. This is not a laughing matter. We expect votes to be accurately counted in a democracy. If it's not, then it's a sign that something is wrong. [deleted] He also had a [majority of the Republican primary* electoral college votes for Louisiana](http://m.mic.com/articles/9163/ron-paul-delegates-arrested-as-they-win-a-majority-at-louisiana-gop-convention), but that didn't stop thug tactics and corruption from winning the day.

The worst part? No one cared.

*Edited for accuracy. That's a very big WTF. What's the aftermath? Ron Paul didn't win. The other candidates had a lot of underhanded tactics they used. Ron Paul was a close 3rd in Iowa and actually won all the delegates. He was second in New Hampshire and 21 other states. Media just drowned him out and made out that he wasn't anywhere near the top. The Republican Party also used tactics to disenfranchise his supporters. It was utter bullshit. It was naive of me to think my impression of the election system could get any worse. It can always be worse. It isn't just Republicans though. The Democratic establishment marginalizes freethinkers as well. Kucinich was turned into a joke, Nader was a monster(I know, not a democrat), and now you'll see how the media will keep saying Bernie Sanders has no chance when he's already polling decently in Iowa. The media and political parties look out for their own interests, which means pleasing their corporate masters. I remember, in one of the '08 democratic primary debates, when it finally came time to ask each candidate an individual question, they asked Mr. Kucinich about an excerpt from his book in which he claims to have seen a UFO. Yeah, they made him a joke alright. Which is really sad because he's a smart man with some great ideas and most of America never got to find that out. If Hillary wins in 2016, by 2020 over the previous 30 years 75% of the time we'll have had a president named either Bush or Clinton. Or, to put it another way, at 32 years old I have been alive to see only one non-Bush/Clinton candidate win office.  If Hillary had won in 2008, Bush/Clinton could have run the table for 28 years in a row (with Jeb Bush eyeballing 2016 right now). 

That shit doesn't happen by accident.  I remember being a kid when Kucinich came to our little town and talked. I really liked him. He placed 2nd in the Ames straw poll and the media reported the results as 1st 3rd 4th 5th completely leaving him off the list.  I live in Iowa and the support for Ron Paul was over whelming signs everywhere bumper stickers people holding up signs... The other candidates little to no support shown.... Of course they came out ahead it makes sense right?  Not saying Ron Paul didn't have sizeable support, but what you're describing could also be an example of a vocal minority. Paul supporters may be more fervent and vocal in their support, but the majority of voters who are somewhat apathetic could continue voting for the status quo and while not as visually large as Paul supporters, still far outnumber them.  He was given almost no screen time compared to other republican candidates and they falsely reported that 2 other candidates were the most likely ones to win when Paul had the majority vote by a landslide early on.  They didn't comment on that. Also in debates he was cut off or not asked questions that were asked of all the others, and to boot,  supposedly neutral talk radio shows like Mike savage began demagoguing him saying he'd ruin the country and destroy everything.   Every time he ran,  he still got a significant amount of the vote, but the blatant media bias was still too much and he'd end up 3rd or 4th from the election spot.  Political establishment figures hate candidates that get a fervent following without toeing the party line. The GOP establishment hated Paul because of his anti-war, non-interventionist foreign policy. They did everything that they could to subvert his campaign, and they succeeded on a lot of fronts.

I expect Bernie Sanders to get similar treatment from the Democratic establishment in 2016. I think he'll be treated worse than Paul, actually. Grassroots liberal organizations will be lining up behind Sanders, and the D.C. elite will be lining up behind Clinton. The D.C. elite are going to smear and trash him mercilessly. Expect for him to be branded as the next Lenin or Stalin by Clinton operatives. They didn't even let his supporters into the convention or whatever. I remember seeing on the news a brief flash of them kicking out a very large group of Paul support, and when I looked it up it was a way bigger thing than the news made it seem.  No, he did not. This wasn't the general election, it was a party caucus. It means it's the Republican party primary for the state where the party casts its votes for who its candidate for president should be, not the general election with the electoral college. They are two very different things. Parties largely control their own rules for their own caucuses. I'm not a Ron Paul guy anymore, but I still get mad when I think about the way he was snubbed by the GOP during the 2012 primaries. No, he didn't win a majority vote anywhere, but state after state, he'd win delegate majorities, and the established leadership would fudge the rules to avoid recognizing them.

http://mic.com/articles/9163/ron-paul-delegates-arrested-as-they-win-a-majority-at-louisiana-gop-convention

That's just one example. If you were following the primaries, similar things happened all over the country. This is a horrible website with a pop-up that covers half the page prompting you to like them on facebook before you finish reading the article, with no way to exit to finish reading the article.  I hate it. Even after Bush '00 and '04 I didn't quite realize how fucked up politics here (US) were until Ron Paul's '08 run. The media coverage or lack thereof, the way he was treated in interviews, then electoral college votes literally being stolen from him. When 2012 came around sadly I was ready for and expected all of it. The voters certainly do not decide who wins. &gt; The voters certainly do not decide who wins.

And this is precisely how the system is set up.  The electoral college elects the president, not the citizens.  We elect the electors that will go to the electoral college.  The electors are free to vote however they want but are "strongly encouraged" to vote their party's favorite candidate.  

This has always seemed strange to me and was even stranger when Gore won more of the popular vote than Bush but Bush became president.  Something seems very wrong with that but it's the system we have. I've never been as involved in politics as I was in 2008 for Ron Paul. I donated money, went to rallies, had signs &amp; tshirts, and even went door to door.

The job the media did on him was despicable. Lies, outright leaving him out of polls he won, and cutting him off in interviews, and even debates. Applying audience boos over cheers, and vice versa with other candidates. It became clear to me then that *We The People are not in control*. We're along for the ride. Media is theatre to create the illusion of of involvement. I began to question everything I've ever learned as a result of the media- I know they're lying about Ron Paul, what else have the lied about? Answer: almost everything that is truly important. Did you look at the final tally after it was certified (sometimes as much as a month later)? The numbers they show on election night or the next day are nowhere near all of the votes and never include absentee ballots delivered in the last few days, provisional ballots, or anything coming from oversees that was postmarked in time but hasn't yet arrived. I don't think it's funny; that's a legitimate concern. Something similar happened in Brazil during the last elections (October 2014). A Communist Party candidate was said to have received 0 votes, which was incredibly odd, not just because a 6.3 million people constituency is far too large for any candidate to receive zero votes, but also because he was pretty popular among youngsters and old-school left-wingers. I myself voted for him and knew of seven others who also did. Turns out that after the votes were recounted he actually had almost 50K votes. 

EDIT: I was WAY off on the vote count. Sorry, all.  &gt; Turns out that after the votes were recounted he actually had over half a million votes. 

What the fuck? Did this get any media attention? Was there an an official reason for why the votes went missing?

 In Australia boxes of votes may have [*literally* fallen off the back of a truck in the last election](http://www.smh.com.au//breaking-news-national/wa-votes-may-have-fallen-off-truck-report-20150415-3u4kx.html) (no one still knows where they went). Odd things happen. 

On that scale though, that's a whole other level of odd.. How did they explain the huge error? People laughed at him when they said he had zero votes? That's mature It's medway..comparable to some backwards ass town in rural america.

pretty sure I heard someone laughing like a hilbilly the other day. Hyuk hyuk hyuk  That is odd, normally even the joke candidates get about 100. 


EDIT it kind of  makes sense actually, TUSC is competing against many other left wing groups. [deleted] For our student union elections we nearly voted a pirate to position of Student President. He wanted rum in the Student Bar and felt that student fees ARRRR to high and he beat 6 legitimate candidates. People were annoyed, most were amused. It is absolutely disrespectful to laugh, and the fact that there are no votes for him even though there is evidence that people voted for him means that the count does not represent the actual voting.

 The one instance where "eh, it's just one vote, it doesn't matter" mattered. Almost makes me want to vote for weird candidates just to help identify election fraud.

Almost. Only works if you're the only person who has that idea. Also, mistakes in vote counting aren't that rare, that's why recounts are available, election fraud isn't the only explanation, or even the most likely one. Someone must've given him a downvote. Yeah, that was me. Sorry about the fuss, people.  Imagine if you could use your vote to take votes from other people. Why isn't this truly an option on ballots? They fucked up. 

If you're going to cheat, do it right.  Mistakes get made, these votes are all counted by hand. Cheating is possible, but it's far more likely the counter just messed up. This is why recounts are available. But how many votes could possibly have been 'miscounted'?  
We think its impossible for him to get zero votes. He lives in the ward, as do several members of his family."  
  
He must've got at least 5 votes.  In Sweden you can write anything on the ballot and after the election they publish every single thing somebody has written online! This happened to be when we elected class president in Grade 3. I don't know what kind of teacher tells a class how many votes each kid got. But I got zero. And I voted for myself! &gt; I don't know what kind of teacher tells a class how many votes each kid got

A bad teacher.  Well that's depressing  He should have been offered a recount on the day, to watch the count and look at any spoilt ballots. Good for him, he deserves the recount. If he voted for himself and others said they voted for him, and it came up as 0... If just me, Milhouse and Lewis had voted... That episode made me win my first election in school. Story? Voted for myself - won by one vote :) I was like "finally a political story where it's not the US being crazy."


But he makes a legitimate point... damnit. Ooh imagine if he put a cross in the wrong box What if every election ever were fixed and we just never caught on How does vote counting work in your countries?

In France, I've helped in the counting for 3 elections (1st and 2nd turn presidentials in 2012 and local 1st turn a few weeks ago). 
What happens is the following:

* the vote ends, the ballot box displays a number that is noted. The votes (still sealed) are counted and compared to the number. 

* the sealed votes are split into packets/envelopes of a hundred votes.  

* volunteers (people that voted during the day, not town hall employees) usually by groups of four (an opener/reader, a checker and two people writing down the votes) get a envelope of a hundred votes and go through it. You get handed a set of rules before you start and there's an official voting table to fill in (it's set up nicely so you add a line for each vote and it's easy to count). 

* town hall officials hover around to check what you are doing at all times.

* when you finish an 100-enveloppe, the results are tarried and noted. You get another envelope. 

* when your table is "done", you all confirm the result and sign the document. What if it turns out that his vote was not counted because he somehow missed to sign the vote or did something else that invalidated his vote? would be even more embarrassing. Sign the what? Voting in the UK isn't anonymous? Secrets ballots are the perfect way for the .1% to make sure their candidates always win. Results should be public and verifiable. I've always been suspicious of the fact that we vote in pencil. It can be rubbed out. I cant even apply for an oyster card in pencil but when it comes to marking something that will influence how the country is run you hand me a PENCIL?! :/ Plot twist: Wife and dad actually voted for other candidates.  The game is rigged. This is the new democracy. You vote, and you are told the person who won did so because they received the majority of the votes, with no accountability. Look at Diebold voting machines, all the problems they've had, and what little has been done about it.

With modern cryptography, we have the technology to allow you to vote anonymously yet be able to check your vote. With modern networks, we have the ability to perform millions of transactions across the world in milliseconds that dwarf the requirements of one single vote, but we still conform to the multi-year voting waiting period imposed by the administrative limitations of centuries past.

This is just what happens when you keep using an outdated 17th century system because of fear of change - its weaknesses and vulnerabilities will be exploited in increasing frequency and with increased experience. Partitioning voting districts, purchasing vulnerable voting systems, lack of scrutiny to voting irregularities by the leading parties.

So you are told that you have to put up with with whomever is in government, because you "voted" to it, and anything to the contrary is simply anarchy. Sorry but no votes? Not a single one? As shameful as it is to vote for yourself, it is also a good method to prove that the vote is staged if you get none. Bring on the fucking downvotes but finally there may be some credence to the claims from the Scottish referendum being rigged.  This article should have explained how the votes were counted.  This does sound totally rigged.

Maybe the Diebold machine malfunctioned, failing to give some votes to the candidate that was not preselected.

&gt;&gt;He said this week that the result was obviously wrong, and that he had been approached by people who said they voted for him. He has a point, and from a purely logical perspective he's completely right. 

However, since when did politicians use logic as their argument. Shaming is the new tactic.  Well he has a point This brings up a really great point. The odds that ALL the votes in any collection are properly counted is much less than the odds that some votes were not counted or miscounted for whatever reason. Countries never, ever want anyone to know just ow widespread it is. As a former candidate who also lost by a big margin, I say good for him. 
It takes a lot of work and money to run for office, and even those losing candidates play an important role in the process.  

For this guy, it took a lot of guts for him to stand up and demand a recount.   Obviously it shows how corrupted the system is.He might have not won,but he definitely had some votes who were not even counted. Same shit but in way larger scales happens on president elections all over the globe   So that's how a president is elected. Fixing votes.  Why is "voted for himself" in quotes in the title? &gt; The 45-year-old was left humiliated when the room burst into laughter after his result was read out at the Medway Council elections on May 7.

How ridiculously insecure can people get to feel the need to dogpile on the guy? It's an election, not a popularity contest anyways. Losing an election doesn't say anything about a person either. No matter how much you may need it to mean something. The fact that he voted for himself means that he should have at least one vote. Since he has zero votes, it means that his vote was not counted. Thus, a recount is justified. This whole world is built on lies and bullshit. Sounds legit.  That's a pretty clear indication that something is not on the level here. If voting had any effect, they wouldn't let us do it. In this day and age, there should be no reason why our voting records should not be made easily accessible. All you would have to do is assign each voter a number (or use an already established form of identity only identifiable to the individual (such as a SSN)) and list everyone's number along with their voting results. This way you could look up your vote to confirm that you were recorded correctly, and no one could know what you voted for unless they knew your unique number. Now, anyone can look up every single vote and do their own vote count, or an individual could look up their number to verify their own vote. I have always wondered why you didn't get a receipt for voting.  It would be a nice way to ensure that they system actually counter your vote and to check fraud.  Maybe allow lookups online afterward.  The receipt could just be a number and your votes without a name attached in any way. &gt;I have always wondered why you didn't get a receipt for voting. 

"Hey there, employee. I want to see proof that you voted for the CEO's buddy. Oh, you voted for someone else? Looks like your next performance review is going to include the phrase 'not a team player'. See you then." Yeah, poor guy.  He was swimming against the tide.  If I recall correctly, the chief of police in Brazil quit a few years back, because he said that the corruption was out of control. I'm surprised he survived for even saying so unless his hands were dirty as well. You can say that much about anyone. The moment you start pointing fingers and showing proof is when they get you. *"If you run away, they get you, and if you stay, they get you, too."* I knew a guy from El Salvador who obtained Asylum and moved to the US

He said one day the guerrillas would come to his house and demand he joined them or they would kill him and if he ran they would find him and kill him

The next day the El Salvador military showed up at his door and said he had to join their military force or they would either kill him or throw him in jail

I don't know how that guy escaped but holy shit that was a screwed either way situation  Corruption is everywhere, frim third world countries to more stable ones.

My family and I lived in Colombia up until I was 13, I am now 29. We left because we were threatened by tye Guerrilla. My father was a radio/tv journalist and we were beginning to do well financially.

One day as my mither and father drove back from raking my grandmother ti the hospital they were intercepted by 4 vehicles. One man sat next to my father in the car and the other back with my mother.

They were taken to the outskirts of the city where they were separated; as my father was beat and tortured my mother was raped multiple times.

They were lined up for execution and one of the guerrilleros approached my father.
He said that because of his position, if they wanted to survive and keep on living, he was to alter any radio/tv scripts he did for his job so they would have code messages for other guerrilleros in the country.

My father agreed wanting to live, and they were allowed to leave... Soon after they arrived at the police station to file a report, only to be greeted by the very same gunmen who worked there as chief.

We left the country within a week. Lost a lot... Were forced to start over again in the U.S.A... then of course 911 happened and citizenship was denied tonus despies our crisis and once again, after living i  the states for 5 years we have to move someplace else.

We now live in Canada and thank God nothing bad has happened.


Corruption is everywhere. It forgives no one, and destroys lifes.

Many people go through life surviving it. I don't wish it to anyone. I have gone and lived through many more things enough to twist my mind. But have somehow managed to pull through.

If any of you have suffered as I have or worse. It never gets any easier. You only get better at it. We never know when life will come crashing through our doora. Love yourselfs and those around you. Wow, I hope your luck changes, nobody should have to go through that.  Well, if I've got my math right, he's been in Canada for 11 years, which is only 2 years less than he lived in Colombia, so he's probably doing all right these days. Canada is a great place to settle down!

Glad you guys got out.  Wish I could do more than just upvote you, amazing story and thank you for sharing. Damn it all to hell.

When I was a kid in a US school, I was taught that this country was meant to be a shining beacon of freedom for the rest of humanity. Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free. If you could but make it here, you'd be welcomed with open arms by the most civilized, advanced nation in the world. From that day forward, you'd have the freedom to live and prosper as every human being deserves to.

And then we deport this family, despite its dire need for that very freedom, for what amounts to petty politics. What a disgrace. My country is worse, I'm afraid.  Our military intercepts refugees and has classified all actions as a "Military Excercise".  We don't even let them come to our country, where they would have a legal leg to stand on.  We imprison them in harmful environments and usually deport them, based on a character test that claims that if they paid any money for their transit, they are involved in people smuggling.  God Bless Australia, becuase no one else will. I hope you're able to stay in Canada. I'd lose a lot of respect for my country if you weren't able to do so.

Also, that the chief of police was involved is terrifying. You know the situation is pretty fucked when that happens :\ Thank you. We have been in Canada since we left the U.S. We are all citizens now. "Se correr o bicho pega, se ficar o bicho come."  City of God? Elite Squad is another good Brazilian movie, despite the name sounding like a Jean Claude Van Damme movie. Yo, what's wrong with Mr. Van Damme? His monologue in JCVD was intense.

Edit: After just rewatching it, intense is an understatement. That movie put him in the category of "good actor" for me.  I just googled that. Holy shit. Just... wow. Elite Squad sounds more like a Chuck Norris flick.  Van Damme didn't do as many military flicks as Norris was known for.  Se corre o bicho pega. Se ficar o bicho come.

If you run the beast gets you. If you stay the beast eats you. In areas steeped in corruption, nobodies hands are clean.  This is an intentional tactic used by criminal organizations.  The old cliche is the offer you cannot refuse.  "Silver or lead"  IE: take my bribe or die.  You work for us now, or we will rape and murder your entire family.  How do you fight that?  Riches and mercy vs poverty and pain and more pain and more pain and even more pain on everyone you hold dear.  A paid informant is far more valuable than an abused snitch.  If you beat a guy into a pulp to make him talk, he could go to the authorities later and maybe come clean and get protection.  If you just threaten a guy and make him talk, and then slap a 100 dollar bill in his hands and say thanks... that guy is now a scared, confused, accomplice to your crimes.  He can't report you without incriminating himself. Just as a small addendum to your post.  In spycraft (the theory and best practices side of the spy game) people who spy out of idealism or patriotism are not to be trusted.  Their motives are an X factor and they might be inspired to improvise or act on their own.  Handlers sometimes force a spy to take cash payments. The cash stabilizes the person's motives. Even if they don't think they want the cash at first, it's liquid power that can be used for any number of purposes (charity, food, housing, comfort, etc). The more they're doing it for the cash, the more likely they are to follow whatever orders the situation warrants.  The most practical applications of psychology are almost always the most terrifying.   Like fear of random events being the biggest behavioural modifier.  That terrified me.  Fear of random attack (like terrorism) makes people stupid. This happens in the world of US business too, at all levels. 

It basically goes like this:

- We are going to.do something bad, and gain from it. 

- If you try to stop us, or snitch, we'll fire you, won't give you references, and possibly destroy your career. Nobody will believe you, and our org has a team of high powered attorneys on our side, what do you have?

- So you keep your head down. Avoid the situation, don't participate, but don't stop it or snitch. 

- Hey, we are going to do something even MORE unethical/illegal. And you  can't say shit because you knew about that last thing and didn't do anything - so you are part of it.

And if you don't think this is exactly how it goes down, you haven't been paying attention. Whistle blowers are treated like shit in the US in the best case scenarios, like.criminals in the worst. 

OK...umm...this may have something to do with the fact that I work in the state that was just today outed as the single most corrupt state in the US. &gt; OK...umm...this may have something to do with the fact that I work in the state that was just today outed as the single most corrupt state in the US.

I looked up what that could be [and my best guess is... maybe New York?](http://fivethirtyeight.com/datalab/ranking-the-states-from-most-to-least-corrupt/) It honestly doesn't seem like an easy thing to measure, and there are lots of other candidates. NPR just reported on a survey of.journalists that witnessed corruption. Arizona won hands down. 

OK...NPR...journalists....take it for.what it's worth. Sorry, no link, on mobile. NPR has some of the best reporting in the world. They have a knack for giving both sides of a situation as fairly as possible. I know they're not perfect, like everyone else, but are generally some of the best in journalistic quality.   This may be the story you were referring to. However, based on what you said, I could be mistaken.

http://www.npr.org/sections/itsallpolitics/2015/04/16/400164062/the-most-corrupt-state-in-the-country-is Yup, my father was being considered for partner in a decently big firm but found out it was committing major SEC violations. When he reported it they forced him to either resign or be fired and face a law suit blaming the violations on him. &gt;This happens in the world of US business too, at all levels. 

I really really hate when people do this. Yes, there is corruption in the US and other developed countries. But it  is *nowhere near* the level in the third world.

If I was stopped by a cop here, or indeed by immigration, my very first response would be to offer a bribe. Would that be your natural reaction in the US?  Saying that much won't get you killed. Everyone laughs it off... thought process: "don't care lol". When everyone is dirty there's no social pressure to feel bad about anything and a single remark like that is like pissing in an ocean. If everyone's corrupt, it's like no one's corrupt. Yeah i dont think this is how that works. Okay, Serpico. 4 the mare I know. It was just a joke. If everyone is corrupt, the poor are fucked.

Fixed that for you. It's sad he got killed for his stance on corruption. Not sure what is worse, getting killed and being a martyr, or being discredited by a smear job and getting thrown in jail for the rest of your life.  He didn't face retaliation because he didn't say specifics. He certainly could have, but didn't because he knew it'd probably get him killed. Maybe he felt that he wasn't fit to be chief of police since he wasn't willing to go so far as to do anything about it given the circumstances.

Or maybe he was corrupt himself, and figured a good way to extricate himself from the situation once he was satisfied was to condemn said corruption when he resigned... "This whole country is corrupt as fuck!"

Leaves country with millions he's stashed away from bribes.  Something like this happened in Ireland in the 90s, a newspaper crime reporter [Veronica Guerin](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Veronica_Guerin) was shot and killed in a driveby because of her reporting on drug dealers.

from the wiki:

"Guerin's murder caused outrage, and Taoiseach John Bruton called it "an attack on democracy".[10] The Oireachtas, the Irish parliament, realised the potential of using tax enforcement laws as a means of deterring and punishing criminals. Within a week of her murder, it enacted the Proceeds of Crime Act 1996 and the Criminal Assets Bureau Act 1996, so that assets purchased with money obtained through crime could be seized by the government. This led to the formation of the Criminal Assets Bureau (CAB)."
 Something like this happened in the U.S. no more than 3 years ago. Look up Michael Hastings. A journalist who straight up challenged the government (to the effect of "If the government calls war on journalists... I say we call war on the government"). He mysteriously died in a firey crash in a 2012-model-year (at the oldest) Mercedes Benz (luxury cars are not well known for catching ablaze and killing their occupants). No need to go to the 90s - something like this happens almost every week.  Just google "blogger murdered" "journalist murdered" or "reporter murdered." It happens all the time because the outcry and political response is weak on organised crime. Small gangs don't target journalists and civilians, only large organised crime kingpin types who think they run a city. I mentioned this instance in the 90s because the response was done right on done way. there are other approaches like decriminalisation and treating addiction as a medical issue rather than a criminal one. *The* chief or *a* chief? Police is organized at the state level here in Brazil. The is also the *Polcia Federal* (Brazil's FBI), but I don't recall its director quitting because of corruption. "The chief of police in Brazil"

which one? there 27 states, each with two police forces. Is his blog still up, so we can all spread copies of it online? It'd be a nice way to have it backfire in their faces anyway. http://corujaodenoticias.blogspot.com.br/
The site stopped updating because headless (police estimated that he disappeared between may 14 and may 15).
In the site he would publish every kind of news from that region, from everyday small town news, like a new store that opened, new priest in town, birthday of the shoe store owner and etc, to news related to crimes, corruption and complaints, without a filter and with a heavy dosage of opinion.
An example (nsfw) of this:
http://corujaodenoticias.blogspot.com.br/2015/05/morto-com-7-tiros-na-cabeca-em.html 

Someone gave him a tip on a child prostitution ring in Catuji and he probably went to check out, alone.
What they did to him is horrible but the way he worked, alone, taking anonymous tips and exposing himself, wasn't very smart either. &gt; The site stopped updating because headless

thanks for that info &gt;The site stopped updating because headless 

&gt;because headless

That can't be coincidental 
 Need a nsfw tag there I rate. WARNING: Example link contains gore Streisand effect. It's a funny thing that we at reddit receive this info, acknowledge how fucked up it is, then consider the best witty / humorous comment on the matter and shrug the implications of it off. He was a human being fighting oppression in the world, and his fucking head was cut off for it. The repercussions? An article posted to reddit and a lot of shameless sarcasm. 

This is it guys, this is the extent of the internets global influence. I'm sorry there wasn't more we could do. RIp you courageous son of a bitch. This was my thought as well. There are plenty of places on Reddit for jokes and humor, but a post about a man who was brutally murdered for honorably trying to shed light on corruption is not the place for it.  The older you get, the more you will see that people hate the ugly truth, and try their best to avoid it. 



 kurt vonnegut said, "Laughter and tears are both responses to frustration and exhaustion. I myself prefer to laugh, since there is less cleaning up to do afterward"

there is nothing i feel i can do so i understand why people feel they want to make light of the situation while i think they nonetheless care about it. One can donate to Amnesty International which exposes these kind of things internationally. [Here is their page on Brazil](https://www.amnesty.org/en/countries/americas/brazil/).  I know it isn't much, but just upvoting this stuff for visibility will raise awareness of or just reinforce the guy's message.   That's how the cliche goes, isn't it? Just by looking, we are "creating awareness."

But really, that doesn't mean anything. At the end of the day, people like you just sit on the knowledge, barely reminded of it amidst the pile of memes and shitty reddit puns sitting in your head.  Progress is always slow.

People whinged about the occupy movement not achieving anything, but now you can talk to anyone about income inequality or the 1% and they immediately know what you're talking about and usually agree that it's a problem when they wouldn't have known about it before. It took about 200 years from the first organised womens sufferage movements to get to where we are now. What if the first women who said "Hey, I want to vote" and was told "No" just decided that trying was a waste of time? Our instant gratification culture has made people give up way too easily; "Well I posted it on reddit and the next day brazil was still corrupt, so I guess that was a waste of time". Letting people know what's going on is important. Letting them know it's wrong and why it's wrong is important. Using humor helps. Progress is happening by inches, one person, one joke, one article at a time. An interesting insight that people expect instant results now, even in social change &amp; justice.

I wonder what we can do to inspire faith in momentum-building. &gt;I wonder what we can do to inspire faith in momentum-building.

Unfortunately it seems to be a flaw of human psychology. Before a thing has been done it is impossible. After it's been done it was inevitable.  When people say "create awareness" I think they're hoping that someone with the power to stop this will be influenced. 

I'm sitting here in America, and what can I do? I don't know what I can do.  Maybe it influences potential voters? 
Maybe it influences future parents or teachers? This is the truest comment. The flower generation didn't save the planet but they had kids raised with pro environment ideas and look how far we've come.  I wanna hope so, man. Good blame deflection with the "people like you" part, making it seem like you do so much more. My thoughts exactly. I read what he said and was like what the fuck? It's amazing the shit Reddit upvotes. &gt; But really, that doesn't mean anything.

Nonsense. For hundreds of years, widespread awareness leads to widespread anger leads to action. It's a process that can take decades certainly, and is not without resistance. But it makes things happen.

But there's a big difference in how active people get about something, in between nobody knowing about it and everyone agreeing about it. At least we're talking about it, I just checked Brazilian newspapers and there's nothing about this.  I actually haven't seen any of the top comments or even somewhat popular comments be sarcasm or jokes. Are they all just downvoted to hell?  [deleted] exactly, what are we as redditors supposed to be doing? starting a kickstarter to hire an army of mercenaries or something? Not all of us. Some of us saw it, read some comments we didn't like, and then whined about it. You know, like you...and me.

It's HILARIOUS how empty righteous indignation such as yours goes over so well constantly. People are shrill. Never would have heard anything about corruption in Brazil from this random blogger. Now I've heard about his decapitation, leading me to believe that there are, indeed, problems with the Brazilian government. So, by killing this guy to prevent people from hearing about how corrupt you are you've made more people than would have likely ever heard anything about it from him hear about it. Brilliant plan, chaps. Brasilian here. Let me just say that senators ~~get paid~~ **steal** over 100mil, our cops are easily bribed with money, drugs and sexual favors, Petrobras has been caught with several billion dlar bribery and corruption scheme with ties to the president, our lack of **hospitals and staff** ~~health care~~ is abysmal, our education in **public schools** ~~system~~ is outright broken, the rich get richer and the poorer get poorer with zero chance at getting to the top, crime is something to expect every second, you cannot ever walk alone at nights, every thing under the sun is inflated to shit, the 900mil stadium built for the world Cup has been abandoned as we predicted, and we're hosting the fucking Olympics.

I used to love my country, and have a huge tribal styled Brasilian flag tatooed on my back but... I weep for the state my country is in. Something has to change. It's scary when you realize just how many countries around the world are completely fucked because of corruption. Billions of people... You mean, all of them? There aren't any not tainted country in the world mate. There are some pretty good stats available to back or dispute this claim. [Here](http://www.transparency.org/cpi2014) Just sticking it up onto the executive branch is at most a naivety. Our main problem is about the Congress and Senate where a bunch of rich assholes get their way through corruption as they like.

The current president of the Senate (Renan Calheiros) has been involved in MAJOR corruption schemes since the 90s, there's a scheme named after him (Renangate) that was about construction companies paying his personal expenses and of an out-of-marriage daughter.

The current president of the Congress (Eduardo Cunha) has been involved in schemes since the 90s, starting with the PC Farias case (which caused an impeachment of the then presidente Fernando Collor) his name has appeared on major corruption schemes which defrauded our health system, education, infrastructure works etc.

Then we have people battling against the fucking president, a president is not an imperator or king, he/she has no absolute power and major corruption scandals almost always will envolve people from the two houses, we got 500+ deputies that are mostly corrupt, 80+ senators that can be involved in corruption schemes without repercussions (because they are also responsible for judging themselves).

So yeah, you can love our country but it seems that you don't understand how politics works, try to educate yourself in that to fight something :/

P.S.: No, I didn't vote for Lula or Dilma and if the first thing you thought to reply me was something along those lines it just show how our current political polarization has caused major gaps in communication, we should be striving to make this country better not create in-fights between who voted in who to lead our executive branch. &gt;say that senators get paid over 100mil

us dollars?  or brazillian currency which I'm sorry to say i don't know what it is.

edit: looked it up, Brazilian real I understand the point of your comment but let's be honest, anyone that doesn't believe there is corruption in Brazil is living in a parallel reality to the rest of the world. It's not that we don't believe, ti's that we've never looked into it or cared to notice. There's a lot of us. It's on my radar now. This is such a simplistic way of looking at it, everyone knows there's corruption in Brazil, it doesn't mean anyone will do anything about it. This is a message to anyone who was passionate enough about it to gather evidence, this is what will happen to you. If everyone is too afraid to ask the difficult questions in Brazil then nothing can be done about the corruption. They have traded off the removal of people digging for the required evidence in exchange for the world being outraged for a few days and the witty banter being thrown their way by reddit.

I'd say they'll be very happy with this trade. Having far away people hear about it and be pissed off is no detriment for those people that've done it. It's sad that things like this are happening all over the world.. Brazil has the highest rate of murder among activists, specially ones involved in land and environmental causes.  Source? https://www.globalwitness.org/campaigns/environmental-activists/deadly-environment/

http://www.theguardian.com/environment/2014/apr/15/surge-deaths-environmental-activists-global-witness-report

http://e360.yale.edu/digest/brazil_offers_protection_for_activists_targeted_with_death_threats/3024/
&gt; the Brazilian government a list of 207 people who had received death threats, including 42 who had already been murdered. 

http://www.pri.org/stories/2014-07-29/activists-brazil-are-fighting-protect-environment-and-their-lives
&gt; Any time you criticize economic interests, you become a watched person,

I hope these are enough... Yes, they are respected institutions, so their claims carry weight. Thanks for providing the sources. That's weird. I live in Brazil (Brasilia), consider myself a decently informed person, and I had never heard of those, neither specifically nor generically. Just goes to show you that you do have to seek the information.  yeah, thats by design that you havent heard of them..
 /r/watchpeopledie

Pretty much every other murder entry is from Brazil. I'm going out on a limb to assume he was looking for statistics, not demonstrations. Yeah, but the Brazilians and Russians seem to be competing to be world champions at it... I don't know, Bangladesh seems like it could be a rising star in the 'stab everyone you disagree with' competition. The difference between Brazil and Russia and the deeply corrupt countries in Asia and Africa is the incredible amount of money involved.  If the money from the oil, gas and minerals of each country were used to build strong infrastructure and social programs, they could be world beaters - instead it is funneled into the pockets of oligarchs and politicians.  A friend of mine works at FIFA (so he has plenty of experience with corruption...) and he was floored by the nakedness and extent of corruption in the World Cup preparations in those two countries. They obviously didn't bribe him enough if he still told you about it. He was part of the organising team.  They weren't bribing him, but demanding bribes FROM him.  Want your official cars to get out of the port? Fuck you, pay me.  Want your mascot kids to get entry visas? Fuck you, pay me.  Want to get rooms in this hotel for your staff? Fuck you, pay me.  Want your staff released from arrest for looking at the cops the wrong way?  Fuck you, pay me.

He was having to requisition money every day to pay people from judges, to local politicians, hotel owners, cops and taxi companies.  EVERYONE who knew that FIFA needed them in some way demanded payment in cash, or in free tickets before they would lift a finger. Natural resource curse. Its a real thing. [deleted] Theres a common saying here: "brazil is a wonderful country too bad theres brazilians here". Now seriously, brazil is a perfect country, with no natural disasters, its fertile, plenty of land for plantation but the people is vile. We brazilians have a culture of being mean, trying to take advantage over anyone, we glorify criminals, we are corrupt. 

brazil is wonderful, the brazilian people is the problem. Before Brazilians got their own server in League of Legends you knew you were going to have a fucking miserable game if you got 1 or more "BRs" on your team.

...That's my only exposure to Brazilian culture but it did leave a bad taste in my mouth since it was so consistent. Haha, I do not play  the game but do you mind elaborating a bit on how they made it bad? Most of the Brazilian playing free to play games have one or more of the problems:

1. Bad Internet leading to horrible ping and bad gameplay;

2. Being horrible at the game;

3. Being horrible at the game on purpose because it's "fun" ("pela zueira");

4. No English, so communication is impossible;

5. If there is some basic English knowledge, they're as obnoxious and rude as possible.

Of course, there are exceptions, but those are quite rare. You probably would never want to play a serious game with a brazilian teammate. 

 There is something funny about getting yelled at by a 12 year old Portuguese kid tho [deleted] Relevant: http://i.imgur.com/ExRRh3O.jpg

Now, however, not only you have to fear the guns, but knives as well. There is a lot of knife attacks going on in Rio recently. When I was in Rio 4 years ago a group of guys staying at our hostel were mugged by a 12 year old. The kid demanded one of the guy's watches, he laughed at him and was promptly stabbed in the stomach. 
 It's common. If you get mugged in Brazil it's better to just give whatever they ask. Not worth risking your life over material stuff. Here, criminals don't give a shit. They will kill for nothing. Hell, they sometimes hurt people even after they've given them what they asked. My experience with LiveLeak confirms all of this. You know what's worse? Rio is not even close to being the worst place when it comes to violence here. Cities in the Northeast and North region can be even worse and it's where a lot of liveleak videos come from.

Check this out: http://i.imgur.com/F12XUhy.png

Rio is the third "safest" capital city in Brazil when it comes to homicide rate. At first I get mad because it's my country, then I remember that it's real, then I feel sad then mad again because it's out of control and the only way to escape this bullshit it moving out.

I hate my country. :/ I live in Venezuela. I don't even get mad anymore. I just hope I can move out of this shithole and have some kids before dying. No way I will have a child here and force him to go through worse.


 Same with me. And this makes me absolutely sad. :/ I used to live in Puerto la Cruz but we moved out in 2007 before it got too out of hand. A lot of people I went to school with (myself included) came to Texas.  You did well moving out. Probably the best decision you made in your entire life, no kidding.


If you want to know how bad it is, I haven't used Qtips in like 3 months because they are not being imported anymore. A minimum wage of $15 or so doesn't help either. Is it true that condoms are going for hundreds of dollars right now? Can confirm: am Afghan It makes me sad, that's also how I feel about my home country Mexico. well, you could always move to the moon or pluto or some shit &gt;some shit

Well... I love Brazil. I'm not exactly native, but I have family and I've lived there briefly and I almost fluently speak the language. I've never been robbed myself (one time I think I came close?) but lots of my family has, and I recognize the massive problems in the government corruption, the lack of infrastructure, and the poverty/crime.

But I still love Brazil. I've found that a lot of Brazilians are very, very pessimistic about the country. Which is sad, because it has some of the warmest, most beautiful people, the best food, amazing culture/landscape. Maybe I'm biased because fortunately almost all of my family there are wonderful people, but despite all it's problems I think it's an amazing country. I think we get so used to the great things about where we live and take them for granted so it seems like all there is left is the bad. I thought the World Cup was a change. Sadly, as soon as the games started, nobody gave a fuck, as predicted.  [deleted] As the usual saying goes, "it's almost as if reddit is comprised of completely different people" I'm more familiar with, "Every account on Reddit is a bot except for you." So does anyone have a link to his blog?  yep.
http://corujaodenoticias.blogspot.com/

had to dig for it a bit.  If you don't read Portugues.... Hey. For anyone wondering, if you haven't heard about Brazilian corruption, that is more if anything am indication of the lack of interest by western media. Brazilian has been covering this corruption, as there have been many many protests recently. So yeah. Western media is biased too, this is just another example. "Brazilian reporter investigating drug-dealing and child prostitution case found decapitated"

---

*"De acordo com o jornal Estado de Minas, atualmente Metzker investigava uma quadrilha de prostituio de adolescentes que agia em Catuji." [1]*


[free translation] Acording with the newspaper "Estado de Minas", Metzker were investigating a teenager prostitution gang that has been acting in the Catuji region (some small city ive never heard of)

----


So this was probably not about corruption.. (as people are just taking for granted here)

Its unusual that something like this would happen because of corruption acusations, otherwise it would be a thing over here... you need to mess with the wrong people to get something like this... mess with drug dealers or something like.. teen prostitution gangsters.

This guy were probably a blogger, that without any backup, and without knowing very well what he would be dealing with, messed up with the wrong kind of people

Also :

*"A Polcia Civil trabalha com duas linhas de investigao, segundo o Estado de Minas: queima de arquivo ou passional, provocado por vingana, diante da suspeita de envolvimento da vtima com uma pessoa da cidade" [1]*

[free translation] The police works with two lines of investigation, witness elimination or passional crime, inspired by revenge, giving the suspicion that the victim was involved with a person in the city..

Aparently this is the guys blog: 
http://corujaodenoticias.blogspot.com.br/

and here a facebook page:
https://pt-br.facebook.com/metzkermetzker


[1] - http://epoca.globo.com/tempo/filtro/noticia/2015/05/jornalista-investigativo-e-encontrado-decapitado-em-minas-gerais.html People ask why bad things happen to good people. Half the time it's because nobody kills the bad guys until way too late. Easy there Punisher I wish punisher existed and we could drop him in Mexico and Brazil  When you get guarantees like "literally only kills bad guys" and "has instant post-hoc ret-cons if he fucks up", why not just put him in charge of the whole world? &gt;  instant post-hoc ret-cons

what is this? a fancy way of saying "changing an event in retrospect" Did the punisher have these powers? This sounds like time travel. I am confused. No, writers will 'retcon' a character or storyline to adapt to a new event in order to maintain continuity in the story universe.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Retroactive_continuity He sneezed and typed it out. Bless him. Make sure he walks from Mexico all the way down to Brazil. Otherwise it's pointless. And this country is hosting the Olympics.. LA hosted the Olympics in 1984, during the explosion of gang violence in the city.  Yeah, remember the disaster that the World Cup was last year? So many people murdered, kidnapped and tortured. It was only 7-1 mate, surely you're exaggerating.  Beautiful.  DESTROYED Too soon If you're being sarcastic, his point is that massively corrupt countries shouldn't have the Olympics bestowed on them at all. &gt; "The level of violence [against journalists] in Brazil is unacceptably high"

So there is an acceptable level of violence against journalists, they just happened to cross the line on this one. Basically, yes.  If a TMZ 'journalist' gets shoved, most would find that pretty 'acceptable' lol. Statistical noise &gt; His hands were tied behind his back and his body showed signs of torture

You mean, *besides* the whole severed head thing? Sadly, there are a lot worse things that could happen to you than being decapitated.  Being decapitated is still *quite* bad though. Mr. Glass Half-empty over here. Look, there's two kinds of people in this world: those who look at a decapitated corpse and say "there's a body without a head" and those who'd say "there's a head without a body," and those who'd say "there's a disconnected head/body system."

(Also I'm so sorry Mr. Metzker, RIP)
 Quite. especially things that can happen to his family.  Fuck :\ hadn't thought of this. Severed *and scalped* head.  Terrible. Suicide by decapitation. The investigators will find someway to make it work. Like that MI6 guy that died by "suicide" after his body was going in a padlocked bag? Yep, looks like a simple case of suicide.

Well, that's what the sources say. Something like tgat happened in Ukraine as well, back in 2000.

Georgiy Gongadze, a prominent journalist who reported on corruption, including president during that time, was murdered in the exact same way.

His death was one of the reasons for civil upheaval. It's admirable that people like Evany Jos Metzker continue to put themselves in harm's way to make the world a better place. To the perpetrators of this crime, I can only say, silence one and many more will rise in his place.  Will many more rise in his place? It will get to the point that no one wants to be a journalist because they are fond of life Similar to Che Gueverra's last words: "Shoot - you are only going to kill a man." According to sources close to the investigation, it appears to have been suicide.  Yea he cut off his own head obviously. Well, at least he didn't padlock himself into a duffel bag. And then throw himself into a river. While encased in a block of cement.  These things happen. No foul play expected.  He was just *running with scissors*.  1. Get cheese cutting wire and make it in to a noose around your neck, then hang from beam, tree etc.

2. Super glue your hands to the side of your head respectively.

3. Jump. 

It'll look like you pulled your own head off. Wow.. never thought I'd see something from bash.org.. 5 bullets to the back of the head. Worst suicide the chief's ever seen. The investigators must have been trained in Argentina. Hey now, it could be India. There was a guy beaten to death a couple years ago over class conflict and his body was dumped on the train tracks and the body hit by a train. A couple *weeks* later a suicide note was found ensuring that nobody had tried to kill him but it was a suicide. Fucking weird right. He tripped and fell on his own shears. Crusty Jugglers "And that is why I killed myself, cut myself up, and put myself in a trash bag." suicided these murdered journalists deserve the highest honor as people committed to the truth, think of how thankless a job it must be, how huge the risks are. and the people that kill journalists, they are in the same league as child murderers to me. http://i.imgur.com/vZbyN1V.jpg Really fucking sad to hear... Such things are sad, he was an individual known for speaking out against corruption and wrongdoing. Such a terrible loss to have such an individual with large titanium balls killed by such a powerful organization. The saddest thing? We have come to expect such things from South America, Central America, and various other shitholes in the world.

Blame religion, blame economics, blame society, but the fact that we aren't even surprised about this anymore should speak leaps and bounds about how bad things have gotten. Yet the Olympics will be hosted here, the World Cup will be hosted in Qatar, and the Olympics were hosted in Beijing, a city rampant with pollution.

 All things we have come to expect, and not even bat an eye towards, and not many people are doing a fucking thing about it.  The article said the police thought it might be a crime of passion.  That is bullshit.  If it was and they were willing to torture him, there would a different head missing. &gt;Lethal violence against the Brazilian press is on the rise, impeding journalists from reporting critically on what is going on, he said. The level of violence [against journalists] in Brazil is unacceptably high.

There's an acceptable level of violence against journalists? "Well it's okay if you beat the crap out of him once or twice a year, but beheading? That crosses a line." When you do this kind of thing , you should protect your identity at no cost.
 you mean any cost protect your identity. it's FREE.

please enter your name, email address, date of birth and social security number.  No he just means you shouldn't pay much. TIL majority of Reddit are assholes. 

Dudes head got cut off for shedding light on corruption going on in his country, let's see how many jokes we can let off? Internet loses today.
 It was self-inflicted, one report says. &gt;The officer spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorised to be quoted by name. He said police were also looking into the possibility that the murder was a crime of passion. He would not elaborate.

Crime of passion my ass.  Next they'll say it was a suicide, or maybe his head fell off by itself. Jesus Christ. Is there any central or South American country that isn't a totally corrupt shit show where human life is actually valued? Chile, Uruguay Been to Uruguay, can confirm.  Live in Uruguay. Can't confirm the corruption part, but at least this morning my neck was still connecting my head to the rest of my body so that could be worse. Well, am Brazilian and my head is still atta HAO ENTER PRESS WAS?!?! It was part of the rigor mortis.  Did you blog about anyone? Ecuador too.. just kidding Brazil is a country the size of a continent.

I live in Brazil and the worst thing that has ever happened to me was having my hat stolen. I could probably have chased down the guy but I was too much of a pussy. Your parents didn't make you put on gloves full of stinging bullet ants? Costa Rica seems aiight Costa Rica. It isn't that bad. I'd live in Argentina Uruguay Chile and Colombia in South America. Costa Rica in Central America. What corruption was he working on? This sounds suspicious. This is all too common, isn't there some sort of UN enquiry on how corrupt these countries are? What is it with latin america and decapitation? Arabs do it too, but they seem to do other things as well. Seems like latin america will only shoot or decapitate you.

How disaffected can i possibly become? I see this shit every week. Anyone who fights against oppression gets killed. Decapitated? Sure! Doesn't really matter anymore. But the fact that he got killed for trying to do the right thing... We're nothing but a bunch of monkeys with guns. http://m.imgur.com/Ddw007R
and
http://m.imgur.com/vHAz5k4
This is one morning's compost and trash product from just the produce and bakery at my grocery store. They used to let us donate most of the bakery items, but the Oregon Food Bank won't send a refrigerated truck anymore, so we throw away all items that need to be kept cold.  My old job use to donate food, then somebody sued after they got sick and that put an end to it, all the dumpsters for organics had locks, and everything else went in a compactor. The same happened in Belgium. They used to give food away that was not experied, but should be eaten the current/next day.

One time the food wasn't good. THe big food chain got bad publication and they stopped the donation. Now you can buy the food nearing the deadline for -30%/-50%/-70%. It's always the same: a few idiots fuck it up for the rest / the majority has to pay for the mistakes of the fuck ups. I work with homeless people and supermarkets donated a lot of stuff untill recently. The higher ups got word of it and put a stop to it for this very reason. It's a shame really because it really helped us a lot in this time of budget cuts on healthcare. It's a funny thing, getting sued because someone went through your trash, took some food and got sick because of it. Is there any sense in this world left? I don't think that is the issue, at least not in the cases mentioned above. The other commentors are referring to food that has been donated to various organizations. Whats really funny is that supermarkets have stopped giving their food to the poor because it gives them a bad reputation. IE: People hoping for a big pay out. This is true about soooooooooo many things in life sadly. :( It seems like I can never keep enough fresh healthy food in my house. Its just too expensive. It really hurts my soul knowing its getting thrown out in other places. It also happened in Abu Dhabi.  We live in a sad world where people sue those who help you ... Give a man a cake, and you feed him for a day. Give a man a lawsuit, and you feed his lawyer for a lifetime. Lewd, lascivious, salacious, outrageous! Thank you, Jackie.  Who told you to put the balm on I didnt tell you to put the balm on Welcome to America  Actually, America isn't one of those countries, as there are Good Samaritan laws pertaining to donating food stuffs in all fifty states, plus DC. You **CANNOT** be ~~sued~~ found liable if someone gets sick after eating donated food, so long as you donated that food in good faith and did not intentionally poison it.

The Federal law is called the Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Food Donation Act

https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/42/1791 &gt; You CANNOT be sued if someone gets sick after eating donated food, so long as you donated that food in good faith and did not intentionally poison it.

This law requires that the act or omission causing injury be attributable to gross negligence or intentional misconduct. So, you can donate food in good faith without intentionally poisoning it and you can still be sued. It's just that the guy who got sick would have to prove gross negligence instead of ordinary negligence. The bar is a little higher, but it's not immunity for the donors. And since you can still be sued, even if you win, it will still cost time/money/stress/reputation damage. So you can't leave milk sitting out in the sun all day, I think that's reasonable.  There's a gross negligence clause, you can be sued. You'll probably win but the suit will still happen. Gross negligence would not be considered good faith. Gross negligence in this case would be like letting a head of lettuce sit on the ground for days, in the heat, rotting, and then pick it up and put it with the food which will be donated. Everyone I dealt with had far more sense than that.

Additionally we signed contracts with the donors removing any liability left upon them. We would not lift a finger unless we had evidence to suspect one of their employees was **intentionally** poisoning the food. This never happened. People actually care enough to do what it takes to not make pigs sick, let alone other people. "I appreciate the food but I'd really benefit from taking all of your money." no, especially they forget to appreciate the food. In top gear USA special episode ([not in this link](http://topgearspecials.com/top-gear-specials/)) the hosts gave away the used car in Louisiana. It went to someone who lost their own car to hurricane Katrina. Well, a bit later a lawyer appeared and demand money to avoid the suing process - that's because they said the car's manufacturing year wrong. Fuck people like that, fuck them with a cactus or something Why would they get sued for stating the incorrect year if it was given away for free? Because they gave it to a real piece of shit, apparently. If I had to take a shot in the dark, they either had nothing and were just trying to get some hush money or something weak like "for insurance purposes you lied to us" Because most of the drama on the show was scripted, so it was likely just fiction... Ah yeah I remember that one. Leeches.  He says, after an anecdote about Belgium... Exactly. You don't need to "force" supermarkets to give unsold food to charity, you just need to provide legal indemnification and most of them will do it. If nothing else, it's probably a cheaper method of disposal for the supermarket.

Of course, from a politician's point of view, the former makes them look like they're standing up to "evil, selfish corporations", while the latter doesn't look nearly as strong... In the United States this very indemnification has existed now for well over a decade.

[Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Food Donation Act](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/42/1791)

But that means nothing unless you can convince the manager, the general manager, the regional manager, and, **MOST IMPORTANTLY**, their frigging lawyers and risk prevention division (holy shit, seriously, these guys won't take any frigging chances), that the law does indeed protect them from lawsuit.

EVEN THEN sometimes they'll just say "ok, I believe you, but its still too risky."

And dude, I wasn't asking for their waste to feed to homeless human beings, no. I was asking them for their waste to feed to pigs. PIGS. I had to show them the Federal law, show them the corresponding state law, and THEN I had to sign an additional release promising that I'd never sue.

But once you've got a supermarket on board, giving you all of their waste, you're in like Flynn. In the summer you could get two or three pallets of food A DAY. I never ate so good.
 Just because they're protected under the law doesn't mean fighting any legal action from a donation recipient wouldn't cost them money. Forcing them to donate the food would make them immune right? &gt;  to feed to pigs. PIGS.

hmmm

&gt; I never ate so good.

Alright, game's up Spider-pig, you had a good run. I don't care if there's a law saying you can't sue. Filing a lawsuit doesn't really cost a lot of money. All it takes is one minor oversight and it actually makes it to court. Once it makes it there, the company needs to either hire a lawyer or send their own to court. Even if you win, you lose because you had the expense of sending your lawyer to court to fight for you. Or if you get a judge that says "fuck that supermarket", then you either have to pay our or fight and pay for an appeal.

Better not to take that risk at all. Yep, having dumpsters picked up can cost hundreds of dollars a pop.  A grocery store I once worked for even had an industrial hydraulic bailing machine just to bail boxes into huge bails to sell to paper recyclers. It didnt make much money, but it was cheaper then paying for dumpsters to be picked up. Forcing has one other advantage - you can regulate it properly.

If you try to regulate voluntary donations, ie "You must have these licenses and practice this and that blah blah" no one would bother. 

If you have no rules at all, obviously people abuse / get sick / sue.

If you have forced regulation, you effectively stop the horrible practice (as a society) of uneaten food going to waste when people are going hungry. All stores are forced to donate food, and have to do it safely. The overhead cost goes slightly up, which will translate to the wealthier normal food buyers subsidizing those unable to feed themselves, and is balanced by the overhead of theft going down slightly. 

I think it's a really great idea, and hope other countries follow this example. Or the grocery stores will just let it expire then throw it away. Forcing a company to do something can make companies work extra hard to not do something. Sorry but practically, that would never happen. The food takes up too much shelf and warehouse space. If they kept the food on the shelves until it expired customers would go elsewhere. If they kept the food in a warehouse it would cost them too much money and manpower and decrease working conditions.

You're framing these companies in a way that I feel is a bit too harsh. How can you even afford to sue someone if you can't even buy yourself food? Because if you have a case that a lawyer thinks they can win, they may work for free in exchange for taking a portion of the settlement. 

 Lots of "no win no fee" lawyers in the UK who do similar  They don't even have to think that they can win. The case just needs to have some merit to it and most big companies would rather pay you to make it you away than go to court.  You're right.   I guess I was just lumping out of court settlements in with the "winning"  category.  Oh man.. that made me sad and hungry :( There's worse than this to be honest.

Some bakeries and groceries used to throw bleach in the garbage where they threw the food away just to make sure no one would eat it.

France is a crazy country when it comes to food. If it's not made the very same day, it ain't fresh (read here "good") enough anymore, and in most cases it WILL be thrown out.

Crazy...but the food is usually great.

edit: I'm actually amazed by how many people were told to throw bleach on stuff... there was a bakery on Winton high street bournemouth uk, at 3.30 every day it would sell its left over in bags for 50p a bag or what ever at 4.30 all bags were 10p.

Problem is why would I pay 1 for a cake thing at lunch time when I could buy a bag full at 40p a few hours later. By having waste available it may make customers wait rather than buy.

There's probally a huge study on this, also who is liable for food eaten once it's thrown out? well, the solution would be to handle the food to associations or organizations that would only distribute it to people in need.

only people who live under welfare, government grants, or food stamps would benefit from this, the usual customers wouldn't be able to get free food so the shop owners wouldn't see a difference.

distributing free food to people who can't buy food in the first place shouldn't represent a shortfall in earnings. they wouldn't buy these goods anyway.

this food wouldn't have been sold to anyone, where's the shortfall? seriously? since it's unmarketable and thrown away, it's worth nothing. nothing at all.

so...it won't cost anything to shop and business owners since we're talking about food that's been downgraded and is unsaleable.  it wouldn't even influence the food prices since these goods are already out of the market as soon as they're thrown away. What would be cool would be to randomize it. Sell certain stuff for 50-90% off at the "last hour" and then everything else that would normally go to the bin gets donated to charities. People don't know what will be on sale at the end of the day so they check it to see if they get lucky but otherwise buy normal stuff and food banks still get lots of food from the grocery stores because they donate the rest. Win win.

There would have to be some sort of system to make sure that the stores didn't lose too much money on this. Extra worker hours, costs of transportation and other small things can really creep up on plans like this; there's probably a reason it's not more popular since it's an "oh duh" idea that looks awesome on paper. A couple years ago, a group called Hunters for the Hungry donated 1,600 lbs of venison to a homeless shelter in Louisiana, and so naturally [the State Health Department stepped in and immediately forced it to be destroyed](http://houston.cbslocal.com/2013/02/25/louisiana-forces-homeless-shelter-to-destroy-8000-worth-of-deer-meat/)  by pouring bleach on it. Well, yeah.  That meat could have contained any number of parasites or contagions especially given there was no way of verifying where the meat originated from.  It even says so in the article.

Sure, they could have given it out, and it might have been fine... or five hundred homeless people might have picked up a prion infection or caused a tuberculosis outbreak. We fill up 4 95-gallon buckets of compost to 1 25-gallon bucket of trash every day in my produce department. One of the biggest chains in New England. And all of that compost goes to a local farmer who has been getting the compost for 20+ years.  In the summer, it is more like 8 big buckets every day.

Edit, and we also fill up 6-8 banana boxes to give to the food pantry. The bakery fills up 2 big shopping carts and donates every day also.  

Edit 2: it rhymes with bannaford, and we recycle so much. All the boxes, paper, plastic, etc I work in catering at an Oregon university, and one of my coworkers just recently got approval for the department to take "expired" food from the retail stores to the school's food bank. We still throw out plenty, but there's still a large amount of food that's now no longer being thrown out daily. Wait... Those bananas are perfectly fine. In fact they are better than the ones I usually buy at the grocery store. This must change. Problem with these bananas is most people wouldn't buy them any longer as they want bananas to last a week before going bad. It also doesn't look "good" for most people and that's why they don't keep them on the shelves. Consumers must change, not super markets. I personally like my bananas when they're green still. Less sweet. Firmer.  
That's the way to eat 'em. You're a fucking monster. Ew no. Green bananas are nasty. Get 'em yellow just as the skin is starting to brown but not enough that it's like liquid underneath. Agreed, slightly green banana has a hint of tartness to it, makes my mouth water just thinking about it. Same here. I hate it when bananas start to go soft. They taste...fresher when they still have green on them.  I find that you get more taste from the banana if you eat it at this stage - the more a banana ages, the more the starches break down into sugars - the more that happens, the more they overpower the gentle flavour of banana.  I work in a supermarket in Croatia, we reduce the price of bread, some meat, delis, and fruit/vegetables every evening by up to 80% so it would get sold. It's also great for poor people, they can get some nice meat really cheap and so on. If it doesn't get sold by an hour before closing we often give it away as a gift to buyers on the checkout.So we mostly just throw away chicken that is past the safe consuming date, because sallmonela is nasty, yo.EDIT for people asking what store it is. It's a German supermarket similar to Lidl. If we have baked too much or ordered too much prepacked meat (chicken,turkey,grined meat) we lower the price in the morning the day before it expires (sometimes 2 days) by 25%,discount going up untill it gets sold. Some stores avoid this as much as they can but it happens. Bread gets discounted only in the evening, with sometimes cheese and salami going up to 50% if necessary. The main UK supermarket do this too when foods are on their 'sell by date' which by law they can't sell afterwards. You can get whole pizzas, bread, meat, vegetables or just things with damaged packages go as low at 90% off. They go around throughout the day with stickers reducing them to make sure it gets sold.

The rising cheap supermarkets like aldi or lidl however throw their food away right in front of the customers, scanning it through the tills before lobbing it in a huge bin. Morrisons are usually the best (just... don't buy reduced seafood... it never ends well). Reduced shelf always has something in it, any time of day, and there's always reduced bread/rolls/etc from the bakery. 

Tesco are stingy bastards, the bright yellow sticker draws you over and - oh, they only took 15p off a 3.50 microwave meal that expires today. Never mind then. I remember when the mad cow scare broke in about 1995 or so. I rushed down to Tesco thinking "yay, cheap steak!" figuring it was far too late to worry about prions as I would have already ingested them.

Unfortunately the rest of the town were thinking the same thing.  There was the biggest crowd I'd ever seen around the meat section, and rump was reduced by about 50p/kilo. Pathetic.

I bought some, burnt it*, set the smoke alarm off and the entire building had to be evacuated with fire engines arriving.  Good times.

*due to shitty cooking, not a form of protest lol I distinctly remember the day that broke out, most times we ate at the kitchen table but that evening we were in the living room and it came on the news. I forget what they're called but my mother had made these scone things with minced beef inside. 

Everybody paused, dead silent. As soon as I put down my knife and fork my mother scoffed and said "YOU ARE GOING TO EAT EVERY LAST BIT" (then followed by "its too late anyway"). Sounds like a mince pie taken too literally. Jeez, that's hilarious! I was only a kid then so I don't remember that, but my parents still refuse to eat beef. I can't believe BSE *increased* sales. It's the British spirit. "It hasn't killed us yet, and it's too late anyway".

Stiff upper lip and steak knife ready! To be honest it's quite difficult to eat steak with a stiff upper lip, you bite your tongue and drool a lot. Ah, the mad cow scare.

I was a poor student. I used to frequent a particularly cheap pizza place, where one of the toppings was "spicy beef". Went in during the mad cow scare to find that "spicy beef" had been replaced with "spicy lamb". It looked and tasted exactly the same. I'd be amazed if it had much beef or lamb in it. I too never understood Tesco's stinginess for about-to-expire food items. Its better to get a penny than to throw it away for free. They figured out they don't need to give massive discounts for people to want it and feel like they're getting a bargain, they don't waste much.  The yellow sticker is psychological. Like those shops that do loads of business because they're always on sale, humans are stupid and easy to manipulate. I used to live near a carpet store which had a closing down sale for 9 years!!! They eventually did close down, didn't make it for the sale though.  Dude...me too. Maybe it's some kind of carpet store scam. That place was having a going out of business sale my entire childhood  Used to live across the road from a Morrisons, would go in half an hour before closing and buy packs of jam donuts for 9p. Now I work up the road from a Tescos, I'm lucky if I get a pack of 1 cookies for less than 90p. Yeah. Morrisons' cheaper discounts mean I do 99% of my shopping there, and most of the time I don't even buy anything discounted but pay full price for other things. I only go to Tesco now for cat litter. Stingy discounts have cost them almost all my business. It's weird seeing people talk about Tesco and Morrisons on reddit... The Americans are asleep, post about British shops! I'm sitting outside Spar! I got a loaf of bread for 6p in tesco the other day. Generally their reductions are shite though. [deleted] Nooo, it's the old lady who uses her trolley to block access to the entire section until she's combed through the lot.

Think my best find was 9p for a pack of 4 mini pork pies?  Aldi have 30% off stickers for food that's going off. I bought a shepherds pie today that was reduced.  Can't say I've ever seen them in my local aldis  They're not as obvious as other supermarkets with their big stickers. It's just a small red circular sticker casually placed on the packaging. Quite difficult to spot generally if you're not looking for it. I don't see them much but I always assumed that was because most stuff gets sold before it reaches sell by date.  I work at Publix and I watch the bakery and deli throw away chicken and baked goods every night ;( 10p bread from asda, woo!  in my asda around chirstmas is usually where it is at. 10p microwave meals. last christmas i bought some roast meals from 20 down to 10p I've seen reduced stuff in lidl. Not to the same extent as in any of the big boys but it does get reduced. Publix (in the south east US) does this. I've gotten multiple expensive cakes for free. Also gotten donations of food from them for charitable events as well.  I live off this stuff. This is fantastic! I usually work real late so I'd be hitting the bargain time every time. :D Yeah.. Why buy it full price if wencan just hit the shop before closing and get it for free Guarantee that you can get what you want in a quick and timely fashion. 

But I totally understand what you are saying 
 If you're happy to have little to no choice and fine with possibly not getting what you want at all (everyone else knows about this, too), then there is no drawback.

The system works for a reason. my local wal-mart(toronto) used to discount their hot table stuff after 9pm. They stopped doing it because people would just wait until 9.
Thing is, their hot table food sucks, so its not worth getting until its discounted anyway.  It sounds like they only occasionally have varying nearly-expired  items that get given away for free at the end of the day, and even then only as a "gift" to paying customers. 

You also have to consume or freeze those items quickly since they have already been sitting out for a while. Many people prefer to pay more for fresher products. Every supermarket I've been to in the UK does this, I'm constantly hitting it up if it's near closing time. At a Norwegian chain called Kiwi they have a thing where if you find something expiring in 2 days it's free

Edit: not 2 days but if it expires today or tomorrow &gt; So we mostly just throw away chicken that is past the safe consuming date, because sallmonela is nasty, yo.

Salmonella is a bacteria found in the blood of infected chickens, it has nothing to due with expiration dates. I thought I'd mention it since this is one of those rare occasions when my profession is somewhat relevant.

Source: I'm a Food Engineer. Thanks! People here mostly don't know that though, they are afraid they will get salmonella from chicken or salami that is close to expiring or been on too high temperature. Though they confuse salmonella with with food poisoning or upset stomach. Usually Campy, especially with chicken.

Freeze your chicken guys! Campylobacter grows at fridge temperatures. What does it mean in particular? Food engineer kind of sounds like the title of a Subway employee. Have you ever thought who calculates expiration dates and how they do it? could you do it with food you cook at home? 

Additionally, how do you conserve, let's say fruits and seafood for export within reasonable cost limits? What materials/containers/additives do you use? 

You probably know how to conserve a couple of kilos at home in a freezer, but as an example if you're sending a couple of tons of chicken from Brazil to the UK how do you guarantee it arrives fresh and safe enough you don't kill consumers of food poisoning? 

Food Engineers do this. How don't you have 100% of customers coming in one hour before closing time? Beacuse you never know what you'll get. And people like fresh vegetables and meat and bread, we had some that even complain that we sell stuff at reduced price saying we should throw it away (bread that was baked around noon and not sold by 7pm) that costs less than a pack of gum. Or saying we're trying to poison them by selling deli or cheese that was sliced in the fridge-counter more than 3 hours. Throw away 7 hr old bread?  Damn, some people are spoiled.  The bread is baked fresh and in countries like France, there are very strict laws regarding bakeries. A bakery can't be called a bakery if they add preservatives or anything to their dough that will make the bread last longer. It's part of the tradition and keeping things authentic I guess. So it's very common to buy your bread daily in France and no one wants a day old baguette it's hard like a rock.   Gods I miss having fresh bread delivered every day, right to out window.  I need to move back to Europe. Fresh baked bread without preservatives doesn't last long though, it's not Wonder White that lasts two weeks on the bench  Fresh bread, not packaged sandwich bread.  All the discount stuff is gone in like 10min. People know it goes on sale exactly at 20:00 so they even queue up by the discount area. That's probably the best way to do it of all I have seen so far. Hope they export that idea to the rest of Europe. A lot of Europe does it already, I believe. I know at least Denmark does it, and I wouldn't be surprised if Sweden, Norway and Finland does the same. Yeah, we do it in Finland.  I'm not sure about rest of Europe, but our government restricts the discount to only 30%. Supermarkets used to be able to sell the food with a 50% discount but then [the consumer bureau decided](http://www.uusisuomi.fi/raha/70665-punaiset-hintalaput-ovatkin-laittomia-%E2%80%93-ruoka-ale-loppuu) that it's illegal to sell them at that high of a discount without additional information.

This really made me angry back then, and it still does.  Thanks, Sipil! I don't know what people usually do in Norway, but at my local store, farmers come and pick up the food they can use to feed their animals, once (or several times) a week. Can confirm. I pick up fresh bread for myself at regular price and whatever day-old stale bread they feel like giving away so I can feed the roe deer that wander around where I live.

Homeless people typically either dumpster dive or "dumpster dive" meaning they meet a guy at the back door around closing time. Stores typically give away fresh food made in the store that day because they can't sell it the day after. Swede here, never seen a store in Sweden do this for anything besides meat.

Meat thats only good for a day or two has reduced price, but usually its not much cheaper (~20% off) so I just buy the regular since I don't eat it all in a day. Swede here as well, I've seen that all over the place, but mostly for meat, bread and dairy products. 
 
It's always 50% or more off. Big UK supermarkets do it, usually fresh stuff that must go gets marked down heavily at the end of day.  It's not as good as it sounds. UK supermarkets need to give 'best before' stuff to charity instead of disposing of it, because a huge amount of food is still getting wasted. Some places throw coffee or paint over food that is put in the bins out back. Make skipping that much harder. We got shouted at for nicking a huge pile of Jaffa cakes, naan breads and a cake from out of a bin when we where students. Agreed, the issue is how?

Does a charity come to pick it up? Will they?

Does the supermarket deliver it which adds cost then that'd make the system undesirable  It's done in some Belgian supermarkets too. -50% on everything that must be eaten the same day (or at least deep freeze). It's also a good way to eat meat you wouldn't probably buy otherwise. In Germany I often see it at those supplier supermarkets that small restaurants go to and such. My mom often buys stuff that's 50% marked down and more.  The legal framework to allow markets to give away this less than prime food is incredibly important. Markets don't throw this food away because they think people won't pay enough money for it to make it worth it. They throw it away because they know that no one will buy it at a certain stage and they can't have themeselves at risk of being sued if someone gets sick. Give them the legal framework to give less than perfect food away and they will. I've tossed massive boxes of produce that wouldn't make it an extra day or just needed an edge cut off and if I was in my kitchen I could have made a great meal out of it but currently it's not possible. Thank you. This whole "corporations want the world to suffer" mindset of Reddit is fucking infuriating. I'm all for grocery stores donating "expired" food to the needy (expired in quotes, because shelf life obviously doesn't reflect consumability). There's no villainy here. If lawmakers would pass a bill that provides indemnity for grocers donating "shelf expired" food, and put the responsibility for safety on on the individual accepting the food (and not the charitable organization - that just creates another level of liability), then we could actually do something.

It all goes back to the absurd statement that the world already produces enough food to feed the global population. Yeah, no shit. The problem isn't production, it's distribution. &gt;This whole "corporations want the world to suffer" mindset of Reddit is fucking infuriating.

I think it's an "emotion set".  There's lots of people here that either somewhat anti capitalist or a bit pro socialist.  Even more so is that the average Redditor isn't knowledgeable about economy or business.   Corporations are not actively evil. They are *amoral*. They take the actions which most benefit them (usually in the short run).

And in smaller setups - like supermarkets - the humanity of the people working there is absolutely a factor. Most people don't want other people to go hungry. &gt; Give them the legal framework to give less than perfect food away and they will.

It must go further than just that.  It needs to be given anonymously without branding.  The moment your brand gets associated with trash you might as well close shop.  If you can donate your food without people knowing it was yours then there is no reason not to. It's actually totally the opposite in practice.  My parents run a food bank with food donated by Wegmans.  Everyone that knows this has an extremely positive view of Wegmans because they donate their near-expired food to charity.  Not only that, people end up developing a taste for Wegmans-brand food, and then when they do get money, they're likely to buy it.  Even people that don't accept donated food have a more positive opinion of Wegmans for doing this. Intermarch, France's third biggest supermarket chain also launched a campaign in 2014 called ["Les fruites et lgumes moches" - inglorious fruits and vegetables] (http://itm.marcelww.com/inglorious/), where they marked down prices of "ugly" produce by 30%, added well designed ads and some serious publicity. It was a huge hit.  I always wondered what grocery stores did with all that extra food, then I discovered dumpster diving was a thing, and now I have 4 and half lbs of fancy dumpster chocolate.  The grocery store chain I worked at replaced all dumpsters with special ones with locks or compactors.

The reason? I worked at that store as the janitor and part of my job was throwing away expired food, a full carts worth every day. Stuff like Lunchables or summer sausage that is clearly fine one day past its expiration date. I used to be homeless so I told my buddies to come by at a certain time to get some food, and I would put the sealed stuff under the dumpster instead of in it.

Well, word got out, some guy dove in the dumpster and ate some disgusting week old fried chicken, got sick, and sued the chain. I believe the claim was that an accessible dumpster full of edible food was an attractive nuisance.

Suddenly I was back to throwing away a full garbage bag of day old bagels, except this time I had to compact them, using a key, next to the nasty meat. There's always one idiot that ruins things for everyone.  There's also the lawyers ~~who's~~ whose job is to capitalize on and encourage those idiots, profiting off them. How is it possible to sue someone for literally eating trash? This thread was giving me ideas, but now I'm feeling like a cop's going to pull out a gun shouting "Put down the banana and step away from the dumpster!" When I was poorer I'd raid bakery compost bins and score bags of sourdough bread. It was heaven. they would tie up the bags extra tight so the food would be ok. My friend gets weekly cupcakes and muffins, sometimes bread scraps from a sandwich shop, cut off ends n such. Luckily, most of the places I've been going to leave all their edible stuff on top of their dumpsters or place it in bags then in the dumpster. For a poor college student it's a godamn treasure to trove I'm pretty sure trove is a noun, dude.  I've never seen/heard anyone use it as a verb. Hahaha oh shit didn't even realize I did that. Treasure to trove, I kinda like that.  It sounds a bit like a rickyism, if you're familiar with Trailer Park Boys. Its all water under the fridge Let guy bonds be guy bonds. I used to work at a teeny tiny grochery store just next to a large college. Things like produce we'd keep on the reduced rack for litterally pennies until we absolutely had to get rid of them. Then employees could take them home, or nice regular customers we had a good rapport with. We tried really hard to avoid it getting to the dumpster. Not to make money, just to be nice. If we could give it away to you in our store without people having to see you digging through the dumpster - we did. God I miss working at such a great place.  There's this hilarious newspiece on the radio in GTA V about homeless people complaining about all the hipsters dumpster-diving and stealing their food. If a company donates their goods and they are spoiled and harm another human, will the company still be liable? This is the main reason most food places don't donate their food unfortunately. They will be. People in this thread seem to be ignoring the obvious reason as to why supermarkets don't give away food that is expired.

Other reasons are that some food banks just don't have the volunteers and the equipment to take the produce or are unwilling to do so for various reasons. Should the company arrange this? No it would not be reasonable.

Staff are also not allowed to take food home for 2 reasons, if they were allowed then people would start hiding food for it to expire and take. The company would still be liable for a gift causing harm especially a large corporation that does not want to loss money in lawsuits. &gt; They will be. People in this thread seem to be ignoring the obvious reason as to why supermarkets don't give away food that is expired.

Depends on the Nation-State.

In the U.S., no, they won't be, because: https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/42/1791 Meanwhile in NYC, it's illegal for restaurants to give their leftovers away (not sure about grocery stores). Thanks Michael Bloomberg! My other half works at a Whole Foods here in Oregon and the amount of food they have to throw away is unreal. On top of that, it's super expensive organic food. All to the trash instead of feeding hungry people. Talk about a crime against humanity. I volunteer at a food bank and throwing away food isn't always anyone's fault. It's a logistically difficult to get food to the hungry. Here are just a few of things that need to be considered:

* Needy families pick up their food from the food bank. Transporting the food there, especially if it's perishable/fragile, is not easy. (Great volunteer opportunity for people with pickup trucks, btw.)
* Food needs to be stored. The food bank I work with distributes on Saturdays only; so if a store has excess perishable food on a Monday, we can't really take it. We also have limited space for storing perishables.
* Perishables are a huge pain because apart from storage, they need to be tracked to make sure they clear timely.
* It's preferable to avoid one-off items as they're hard to account for and distribute. That is, when we want to distribute rice, we'll procure thousands of pounds of rice - all at once. Getting something like a single cake clogs the sorting process up.

WF actually does donate a lot of canned food. I just want to point that out since it'd be pretty unfair for them to quietly do that for my food bank, only to get called out for being wasteful here. Places like Costco and Waitrose in the UK used to give a charity I worked for free food donations every Wednesday. Fresh peppers, pastries e.t.c 

It comes down to the individual manager and what company policy is. Wait there are Costcos in the UK??  Yeah! They're the shit for all ages, only time I ever used to like going shopping with my mum when I was younger. Yeah they are really great, love their american style cookies. Not very many of them. Most of the population probably go 'what?' When they hear the name costco  One of the factors that makes organic food more expensive is that it won't keep as well. Most of it is still perfectly edible if you cut away the bad parts, but due to food safety regulations, they have to throw it away.

Also, would you keep buying at a store who sells a ham, if you need to cut away 1/4th to remove the spoiled part? 

Better education about food and handling our food should be mandatory in schools. Stores do sell vegetables where you have to cut away 1/4th, though ;) I hate it when there's a chunk of unedible wood in the middle of my advocados. It's like they hid it there on purpose.  Why only half of you is working there?! I work in supply strategy for a major UK supermarket, so I might be able to give a little bit of context.

Waste is an incredible challenge in the industry, and one that is very hard to reduce. The main cause of waste is errors in forecasting. The question of "How many burgers do we order for this weekend" will depend on lots of factors, but a few major ones are:

* Historical sales performance
* The weather forecast
* If there are any events on (including local events)
* Is there promotional activity which will affect demand for this item

Let's say we predict a quadruple threat - we think it's going to be sunny, we sold lots this time last year, the manufacturer has paid us to run a promotion and there is a major sports event on. Maybe we predict we need 100,000 units of a particular burger. Orders go in and 24 hours later... it rains. BBQ's get cancelled and instead of wanting burgers people want root vegetables and brassicas. Unfortunately, we try our hardest, but some waste is just unavoidable.

Believe me - the industry is working on lots of ways to reduce waste. Most 'quick wins' have all been done, so most of the improvements in the future will actually be quite complex, but we are working on them. This is in our interest - it helps our bottom line.

Good news though - there are things that customers can do to help us reduce waste if this is an issue which is important to you:

* Don't reach to the back of the shelves to get the best life product unless you really need it. Lots of people do this, and all it means is that we get stuck with the products with less shelf life that are more likely to be wasted. Shelves need to be 'First in, First out' otherwise product goes out of date.
* When you are shopping for loose fruit / veg don't pick the ones that look the best - pick some nice ugly fruit. Customers will usually try to pick the best for themselves, and the uglier produce gets left by everyone to expire. They will still taste the same, so pick a few with visual imperfections on the outside and help those veggies get eaten.
* Be prepared to buy alternatives. 
* If the service is available, during major events (e.g. Christmas) pre-order your food (e.g. Turkeys) so we can order just the right amounts.
* Effectively plan your food usage at home - although supermarkets can appear to waste a lot, it's actually surprisingly little compared to the volume of food they sell. Most food waste happens in the customers home.  Grocery store I used to work for used to donate all the leftover food to homeless shelters and stuff like that. 

Until one person got sick and sued the company. They didn't die, they just got a little sick. Ruined it for any other homeless people who could have had some food.  &gt; They didn't die, they just got a little sick.

Really? In the States? Or where?

[Here's Why Wasted Food Doesnt Get To Poor People](http://www.businessinsider.com/why-dont-some-grocery-stores-donate-food-to-poor-people-2014-10)

&gt;The first reason is liability. Many vendors mistakenly believe they'll get sued for providing food that gets somebody sick, even if they think that food is safe. The vendors may decide giving away their leftovers isn't worth the legal risk.

&gt;What these vendors may not know (or fully understand) is that in 1996, Congress passed the [Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Food Donation Act](http://www.foodtodonate.com/Fdcmain/LegalLiabilities.aspx), thus protecting good faith food donors from civil and criminal liability. The law specifically protects individuals, corporations, wholesalers, caterers, farmers, restaurateurs, and others from liability for donating food in good faith.

&gt;People are always so worried about someone getting sick, but its never been an issue for us, said Larson.

I always hear your story as "my cousin's best friend's brother's next  door neighbor who knew someone who worked at McDonalds..." But you are saying this first-hand. What grocery store is this?

Actually asking at stores has proven it to usually be false (often they don't want to answer). &gt;Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Food Donation Act

If this is real, everyone needs to know about it https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/42/1791

Its real That act may be real but so are court costs for a frivolous lawsuit.  Companies pay next to nothing to throw food out.  Until they are completely protected from frivolous lawsuits they have no incentive to donate food.  I work at a food bank. Our largest supplier are the 2 largest supermarket chains in our area. (Jumbo and Albert Heijn) They mostly provide us with fresh foods, such as bread, meat, vegetables, salads, fish etc. Most of these foods we'd get would've been thrown away instead, even though perfectly edible.

It's little trouble for them, we come to pick it up in the early morning and load it in our truck. All they have to do is to make a selection of what we can pick up, and we'll handle the rest. 

I'd say about 50% of all the food we give away come from these supermarkets. Many of the people that come to the food bank really benefit from our support. I can only applaud France's decision for this. is there a reason why they dont do this already.  Tomorrow's statement from Carrefour: "All the food has been sold to Carrefive, an organisation that buys old food that has nothing to do with us, we swear. We don't know what they do with it.". Funny thing is, Carrefour is already very active in giving unsold food to charity.  Kroger, at least in Georgia, freezes all perishables and boxes up shelf stable food that then gets picked up by the Atlanta food bank.  Worked at a supermarket one summer in Produce.  We threw so much away that was still edible.  If it was past it's Sell By date either we could eat some or toss it.  Sure some was bad but lot was perfectly fine and was just thrown away, it was a bit disturbing. Anyone who hasn't worked in a grocery store would be shocked how much perfectly good food we throw away. It's messed up Before I Read the article, I thought finally they've seen sence and will start feeding the people that need it. 


Then I opened it and was disappointed it was being donated as animal feed. . Great it seems you missed the "OR" in the translation.

&gt; Under the new legislation, supermarkets will have to take measures to prevent food waste and will be forced to donate any unsold but still edible food goods to charity or for use as animal feed or farming compost.

The idea behind this "project" is to give food mainly to charities. The use-by date is there for a reason, and it's not planned obsolescence.  Poor people are still people and deserve to be protected from spoiled food. &gt; The use-by date 

Use-by date in France don't means : "it is not good to eat".
It means : "We don't garantee the texture/taste will be the same as a fresh product". A milkmade product can still be good but have its texture and taste altered with time, as meat or vegetable.

They have no obligation to put the date to show when it will not be good anymore so by marketing to made it so the "use-by date" was understand by the population like "not good to eat". They only have to tell the date of when the product can change. This way people keep food less longer, waste more and have to buy more.

This is a big misunderstanding. similar in the UK, although actually opposite terminology:

"use by date" means "will likely get mouldy on date"

"best before date" means "might go soft/not perfect on date"

Many many people are confused by this. [deleted] I'm not sure about that, probably more than half the products are actually expired, but a significant portion, like vegetables or yoguhrts are just deemed too "unsexy" to sell, but pose not threat when consumed. I have the feeling that it's more about the supermarkets and the food industry business model than about health, really. Here in France the yoghurts that are consumed in mainland france expire two months earlier than those sent to the french islands (Runion, Guadeloupe etc...), even tho they've been produced at the same time in the same factory.

 I totally agree that the health regulations should protect everyone equally tho. The food isn't usually spoiled for a few days In Germany at least only meat and other sensitive stuff has a "use by" date. Everything else has a "best to use before" date and is often still good after weeks or even months have passed. I am an animal and I too need feed. I believe that donating to people that need it is still an option, as mentioned: "... will be forced to donate any unsold but still edible food goods to charity or for use as animal feed or farming compost." This will have unintended consequences. People seem to think that you can legislate reality away. 

The reason supermarkets throw out food is not out of spite but because it's the cost efficient thing to do. So now the categorical ban to throw away food means that supermarkets will have to do the wasteful thing which is to add staff for handling the food which will increase the prices of products. 

Add the costs of handling the foods, and sorting them (which will done by charities). No proof will be given or demanded that this legislation will be more effective then just buying the food in the first place. It just spreads the cost in a different way. great news! we throw away so much food I believe the reason why they're not doing this is the legal repercussion of giving "outdated" food being the same as selling it

Not sure how they plan to adress it Supermarket where I grew up used to donate to a food pantry.  Stopped when too many people tried to return big ticket items for cash continually. I work in Tesco in the UK, and we reduce things by 95% most days after 9/10 before we close, the Tesco I am in has a lot of homeless that come in and buy a loaf of bread for 3p.  FYI food waste that is desirable by charities is maybe 10% - 20% of all the food waste that is created daily. Humans are picky, even when homeless and starving.

You know what's not picky? Pigs. Our store always donated what it could (cakes, bread, etc). Anything else we donated to a pig farm. Pigs will eat anything. I worked at a supermarket as a teen.  We used to give the deli foods to the homeless shelter.  Then some hobo sued the company for "food poisoning". So now they just throw it away.  Damn. That's messed up. Fucking homeless lawyers. Oh im sure some ambulance chaser convinced him to do it.  Yea it is.  The deli made soup, salads, rotisserie chicken, fried chicken, po' boys, etc. And now it all goes in the garbage.  Apparently we can't do that in the U.S. because of FDA regulations.  We throw literally *tons* of food away every single day. It disgusts me. I will never forget working at Burger King and at the closing time the amount of food we were  throwing every night.  I don't see anything there about protecting the grocery store from lawsuits over spoiled food. I'm sure most of them really don't want to throw the food away, but they do it so a lawsuit doesn't financially ruin their store. They probably could have accomplished the same thing by loosening liability for donated expired food. I can't imagine that's not part of this.  They can't force people to sell food and then just let the lawsuits come rolling in.

Plus France doesn't have the extreme litigiousness of America. Fun fact: Many french supermarkets used to do it voluntarily until regulation after regulation, it was made a legal nightmare and they just gave up because they'd have to hire someone near-full time just to take care of it.  So they are giving away spoiled food to the needy, two problems solved! Go France! I asked the kitchen at a local Hospital to donate unused food to a local food kitchen, but they said state regulations would not allow food to be distributed outside the hospital due to community health concerns?? Really ?? Meanwhile in my Country poor, hungry people are arrested for digging through supermarket bins for food. In the U.S. (Vermont anyway) any good past the sell by date, even canned food (which we all know have bullshit sellby's) can't be given to or accepted by charities.  the only real issue is the business owners who'd rather see the government handling "real" taxpayers money to people in need. 

so that these people in need could buy food with taxpayer money and shop owners could make more profit thanks to taxpayers.

this is the real problem here. shop and business owners are in for profit, not to feed the people.

it all narrows down to that: the seek of profit even on the behalf of people who live in extreme poverty, or on the behalf of the government if these people don't have money to buy food.

feeding extremely poor people is a market that is granted by the government and funded with taxpayer money.
it represents totally riskless and automatic profits for the food industry since the government can't let people starve to death, basically. that's the real issue.

 The funny thing is from a economic standpoint, it's a terrible idea. All that will happen is supermarkets will stop carrying excess produce, and simply let shelves run out. Wasted food, even if donated, is still a fiscal loss. Not to mention severe price cuts just to sell something of the stock before the good by date, and deliberate structuring to ensure the only food that can be given is the kind that can't be easily preserved anyway. Nice idea but by making it a law, you've simply reduced amount of food bought by grocery stores, and created more demand for certain items.  And of course there will be less unused food even available for compliance with this law.  Will there be a new law requiring grocery stores to have enough products to satisfy the required unused food quota?

Now the poor has even less spending power--so is that the point?  Kick them out of the bottom?  Make them dependent on free food and charity?

 General tourism is still not approved between the U.S. and Cuba.

&gt;  The passenger ferries will be able to carry only authorized U.S. travelers to Cuba, including people in 12 categories who no longer need a license in advance to visit. Those categories include family visits as well as religious and educational activities, among others.
Americans still are not allowed to travel to Cuba for general tourism under the terms of the U.S. embargo, which remains in place. Only Congress can lift the embargo.

Edit: [Prior Approval No Longer Required as of Friday for 12 Types of Travel to Cuba](http://www.slate.com/blogs/the_slatest/2015/01/15/cuba_travel_categories_12_types_of_visit_legally_allowed_without_prior_permission.html)

As per the above article, the 12 catagories are defined and explained. Happy traveling!

Edit #2: [FACT SHEET: Charting a New Course on Cuba](https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2014/12/17/fact-sheet-charting-new-course-cuba)

The White House
Office of the Press Secretary: Includes an email link for questions/comments. Yes, but the categories are incredibly broad, and more importantly, you no longer need prior approval. You just have to provide the reason if the gov't asks later. [(source)](http://thepointsguy.com/2015/01/who-can-go-to-cuba/)

* Planning to run a 5k while you're there? Great, just go and if the gov't asks, you are permitted under general license, as you are "participating in an athletic competition"
* Gonna visit a church while you're there? "Religious activities"
* Taking photos and posting them to your blog afterwards? That's "journalistic activity," so you're good to go!

Honestly, for anyone with even the slightest interest in visiting Cuba, it shouldn't take more than about 5 minutes to figure out something they can do there within the 12 permitted categories. Seems too easy. I'm suspicious. It's a loophole, it's how they can lift the travel embargo without congress lifting the travel embargo.

 Or more likely they can end this ridiculous Cold War relic of a policy without losing the votes of exiles in Florida. If you are interested in Cuba, go now. Many, many foreign companies have activated plans to open up business in Cuba. Once Del Sol, Marriott, and Taco Bell start opening stores all over the island, it's going to change Cuba. To be honest when I went to Cuba, it was kind of a dump. Everything was dirty and rundown and impoverished, this was about 10 years ago. If that's true, than 50% of this thread needs to read this what happens if you say you went for tourism or provide some other similarly unsatisfactory answer? Are there actual punitive measures in place? I wouldn't recommend trying it. It's been a multi-thousand-dollar fine, and I don't think they've changed that. If I claimed I wanted to educate myself about Cuban rum and women, do you think they'd approve my permit application? I know you're joking but the answer to your question is actually that they don't have to approve you any more. You have to fall into one of the 12 categories, but noone "approves" it, you just go and answer questions later. [Source](http://thepointsguy.com/2015/01/who-can-go-to-cuba/) Huh...interesting, thank you. u/ILikeTheCoochie is a traitor. *to the revolution Viva la revolucion! I am Cuban, so I probably have family over there. Could I actually go and say I am trying to find family theoretically? There is really noone who approves you before you get on the ferry, it is really all just paperwork once you return? Well family visits are allowed, but it seems like a bit of a stretch if you don't actually know any of your family there... but IANAL.

In [my other post](http://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/34z5ni/us_government_has_authorized_commercial_ferry/cqzr0wk) I gave an example of some other justifications. I think that the church one would probably be easiest. Havana Cathedral seems like it would be interesting to visit regardless. We need to get rid of that acronym. I don't even know how to pronounce it aloud. I'm not even sure what it stands for. I Am Not A Lawyer I like ANAL And cigars. Don't forget the cigars. I smoked a Cuban once. It was good. But not that special.  I feel like most of the appeal of Cuban cigars are their sense of exclusivity because they're contraband You sure it wasn't a Dominican with Cuban papers? If you want to educate yourself about Cuban rum and women, you can come to Manhattan. Simply state Missionary, and expand on it once you return. Can the ferries transport non-U.S. residents (tourists), whose governments don't restrict their travel to Cuba?  [deleted] I'm forming a new religon, based on cigars, rum, and Cuban cuties. They call themselves Parrot-heads. how poorly defined is "Religious Activities"?

we may have just found our loophole. Thank god. Got a couple years left -Canadian resort enjoyer &gt;Americans are still not allowed to travel to Cuba for tourism under the terms of the U.S. embargo on Cuba that remains in place. Only Congress can lift the embargo. So Conan O'Brien's trip was filed under business?  Probably considered journalism. Conanism is an allowed category [deleted] May I ask how much they had to pay? [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] if you've never been to Cuba remember this rule of thumb..

A 4 star in Cuba is equal to a 2 star. 
 Canadians and other world residents don't need a permit. The Land of The Free prevents their own citizens from visiting Cuba, not the other way around. If you have to ask... &gt; If you have to ask...

  You'll never know
  Funky motherfucker will not be told to go
  If you have to ask, you'll never know
  Funky motherfucker will not be told to go
  Wow, wow, wow Meh or you can just fly in via Canada or Mexico. Cuba doesn't stamp your passport they just slip a piece of paper in it so there's no Cuba stuff on your passport.  They've started stamping now. I went 3 weeks ago and my passport was stamped both incoming and leaving. Last year it wasn't.  My mom went several times under the guise of "medical aid."  As in the boat they took to get there just brought a bunch of medical supplies and people had a vacation for a week and then went back home.

It hasn't been a particularly strict embargo. People: Great! A ferry to beautiful Cuba!

Government: Yup!

People: Can we use it?

Government: Nope!   It's like the government is a shitty genie. We wished for a ferry to Cuba, but forgot to wish for permission to use it. "We want more government services, less taxes, and a balanced budget."


"Fuck you, that's impossible; you can only get two of those at best. That's why you're getting absolutely none of those." "But we elected you to fulfill our needs and represent our opinions in DC!"

"Yep, you sure did."

"... Aren't you going to do that?"

"Nope." One branch of government is in charge of the ferry.  And a different branch of the government is in charge of granting permission to use it.  The idea of checks and balances is great.  The details of it can seem very strange sometimes.  In a weird way, it's supposed to be difficult to get anything done.  

This is actually a brilliant political move by the Obama administration.  If the Republicans in Congress ease restrictions on Cuba, they piss off some big money donors and voters.  If they don't ease the restrictions, they look incompetent and beholden to special interests. In other words regular tourism will start in 2017 at the earliest. 
 But you can go under an education visa. In which case you simply book with a tour operator that claims to be educational. "Today's class is on Cuban beaches".


Ways around everything. you can go if you're making a person to person interaction visit, so, I think taking a cultural arts seminar on a balcony with some drinks and a host would probably count. But if you want to go read quietly there on vacation, that's not allowed.  Yeah but as a non-American living in the US, this is good news for me.  Why I've travelled to Cuba a few times, its a nice place to visit, I have friends there and I'd like to go again. If this ferry means I can fly to Florida then take a boat to Cuba, instead of having to fly hundreds of miles in the wrong direction to Canada first, then great! Fly to Cancun.....or The Bahamas. I never thought of that potential benefit. Thanks for pointing it out, have fun on your future travels. It was (and still barely is) illegal for US RESIDENTS (not just citizens) to go to Cuba,  specifically including leaving the country to get around the embargo. Plenty of people did it, but it was illegal. Just pointing that out. I'm a foreigner living in the US, too. Never went to Cuba because the wife is American, and we didn't want to risk it. Probably should have.  *Insert Canadians claiming their favorite vacation spot is now going to be 'spoiled' by Americans* But enough about South Florida I love the Canadians, there is a Poutine shop by my house. They also serve Tim Hortons coffee. You maple loving puck slappers can come down as long as you like, as long as I can still get my poutine fix. The only inconvenience is that Panthers tickets quadruple when the Leafs or Habs are in town. &gt; They also serve Tim Hortons coffee

To be fair, you can simulate Tim Hortons coffee by filtering barf through a crusty sock. wh..why is the sock crusty? If I have to explain, it loses all value.   Exactly what value does a crusty sock have? &gt; Exactly what value does a crusty sock have?

Only the value you give it, young grasshopper.   Twice a day, sometimes more.  Still cheaper than going to a game up here. Even with travel costs accounted for it's cheaper to drive to Boston and catch a game then go see one in Montreal. And yet tickets in Boston are as expensive in Montreal. A small barn and greedy owners versus a huge barn and owners who care. You can get Leafs tickets for 2134 if you save your money. They won't have won a cup by then at any rate.  As a south Floridian the truth of this stings. There's a whole Canadian trailer park near Okeechobee. Okie dokie.  thats like getting two birds stoned at once Canadian here. Been to almost all the places in the tropics, if anything this will make cuba better. Cuba has* the best beaches I would say, but it really suffers from not having enough foreign investment in the resorts. The quality of the food is ehhhhhh and same with the service. If American tourism and foreign investment spike up it will make cuba into a great place to vacation Except the prices will also increase significantly.  Bingo that's the only downside. Right now Cuba is way cheaper than say the dominican republic  Pretty decent downside, last time I went to Cuba I paid 700 all inclusive flights included.. couldn't get much cheaper than 1000+ anywhere else, though the resort wasn't the nicest I admit. That said, I fully support improved US-Cuba relations  Food was horrible. The only things I ate the whole time there were omelets and pasta. And lots and lots of rum.  I really like rum...

Like REALLY really like rum... go to Puerto Rico. Or to the Dominican Republic  The rum made the food taste good. Must have been the resort, when I went the food was great. The only mistake I made was putting rum into a coconut. Nothing prepares you for the shits you get the morning after that tropical mistake. Well duh, you put the lime in the coconut.  And shake it all up! Listen to the song! They're calling a doctor because that mixture gave them stomach pains. The doctor recommends fixing it by doing more of the same. &gt; Food was horrible.

Really? Cuban food in Miami and South Florida in general is great. I'm a little disappointed to hear that Cuban food *in Cuba* isn't at least as good as it is here.  The embargo is to blame for that, everything comes from everywhere but the USA. Was seeing ketchup from Spain.

Food safety is pretty bad on the resorts. Lack of condiments. Beef is also non existent in Cuba.

When the ferries open up, this is going to be absolutely massive for Cubans and Cuban businesses.

 Canadian here, I'm sick of hearing those comments, I'd like to hang with some Americans in Havana why not? So stereotypical... We'll hang out with you :) Where's the rum?? Seriously, I want more, love it. And for 5-7 pesos a bottle...damn. Note, a peso is currently 87 cents American.  A cuban peso is 3 cents American.  Where'd you get 87? there is two types of Cuban peso. one for domestic use and one for foreigners to use. Source: went to Cuba &gt;one for domestic use and one for foreigners to use

wtf, why...  Communism.  That's a completely ridiculous thing to say.

The Europeans, Australians, New Zealanders, South Americans, and Asians will be saying it too. Man, antique car collectors and restorers are going to go fucking nuts. Collectors, not so much.  Cubans have kept cars on the roads using any means possible.  Wiring jobs have been hacked, I'm sure bondo is on every 1950's car.  Engine wise, I've heard a lot of the factory engines have long died and have been replaced with tractor engines from Russia.  If you think John Doe is down in Cuba with a shed full of low mileage, mint condition 1956 Chevys, you're very wrong. &gt;Juan Doe &gt; Juan Dominguez  This is exactly right.  Those things are just fake shells of what they were originally.  They make look similar, but nothing on it is original nor collectible. You don't think there will be a lucrative market for Cuban cars? Just for the novelty of it? &gt; I'm sure bondo is on every 1950's car. 

Yep, 70 year old steel and a tropical marine atmosphere don't really mix. and a bunch of Cubans will make a decent amount off money of that too. some might strike it big too  I've been told they have some seriously good mechanics out there because they have to keep everything running so long. Good or.. makeshift repairs? They haven't had new cars out there for many decades now.  If the vehicles are still running now, they're good mechanics. They are, but didn't have access to original parts. Most of those cars have almost no collector value beyond for being of Cuban-origin. They're a mishmash internally of whatever the Cubans could get their hands on. 

Think a Chinese engine mated to a transmission off of some 3rd vehicle, homemade brake linings, locally reupholstered interior, etc. Yeah, it might *look* like a 57' Bel Air, but a wreck that's been in a barn for the past 40 years has more collector value than one running on the streets of Cuba, because it's still all original.

Again, admirable they've kept them going. But the collector value is destroyed. I was in Havana last year, can confirm.  Vast majority of American cars I looked at were nowhere near original.   Most of them had engine swaps, often with 4 cylinder diesels.   Collectors will be able to find body pieces, trim and interior bits that are useful, but don't expect to find a mint '57 chevy just driving around. I would think the history and ingenuity of the engineers and mechanics that kept these cars running so long would make them more valuable. Sort of a provenance kind of thing. A '55 Ford Fairlane in running condition that has been used as a Cuban taxi for 60 years and Frankensteined to all get out would sound fucking awesome to me of I were a collector. 

Not all collectors want a simple, pristine restoration. A beat up car with a cool story counts just as much, if not more.  I wouldn't say "just as much, if not more" but definitely a lot more than what the owner might value it as. Especially since the US dollar still holds a strong value down there.  I think it's less of making parts fit that shouldn't have and more of parting out broken down cars to keep the others running. It's harder to fabricate a "BMW door for a chevy" than it is to take a door off a wrecked chevy and putting it into another chevy. Most of the cars there are probably pretty much original, just because if ease.  It's 65 years in a humid, salty, tropical climate, with a 1950s American car.

Beyond that, you're not understanding that these cars were basically irreplaceable to their owners. They *couldn't* buy a new car, imports from the USSR/wherever were generally only for state use, they aren't/weren't sold to the Cuban public. If you have one, you fix it however you can or you no longer have a car. That gives you a strong incentive to do whatever engineering is required to get it running with what you can find. There's a reason Cubans have to pick up hitch-hikers by law. It's basically the only way of getting to work for many people. My source is being told this by a Cuban hitch-hiker, and seeing quite how common it was. Cars are not easy to come by. My very first trip there we hitchhiked across the entire country. Amazing journey. Everyone is friendly and will stop for you. For those that dont get it, his first part says rust, these things are gonna be rusted out badly.  I was there over Christmas for vacation and most of the cars have Russian drive trains. Basically the only things that are original is the exterior. Some of the vehicles there were in horrible condition.  I seemed to recall that a number were also converted to deisel.

I honestly don't see how these cars will be collector's items. They are held together with duct tape at the best of times. A good buddy of mine I've known since 1990 is Cuban, I've asked him this exact question.  His Dad's still in Cuba, there is basically zero collector value left in the American cars being driven in Cuba.  Parts have been taken off donor cars since the get-go, there have been no original donor cars for decades.  So, they make do with largely machined parts - and their machine shops leave a lot to be desired.  The bodies have been patched with welded sheet metal time and time again.   

http://www.freep.com/story/money/cars/2014/12/17/cuba-cars-travel-detroit/20548379/



That all being said, as  Floridian I'm psyched.  I'll be able to drive to Havana sometime soon.  Very awesome!  Just a warning if you plan to drive in Cuba... If you get in an accident they can tie you up for a very long time.

https://www.thestar.com/news/gta/2010/08/06/man_stranded_in_cuba_is_back_home.html If the shell and the frame are still the original they might be worth something even if the innards are mixed bag. Though not necessarily as collectors items. Minor, but Cuba imports cars regularly. Regular citizens generally can't get them but there are newer chinese and european imports. The peugot in [this pic](http://rack.3.mshcdn.com/media/ZgkyMDE0LzEyLzI0L2VkL0N1YmFDbGFzc2ljLmFkMzc0LmpwZwpwCXRodW1iCTE0NDB4MTAwMD4KZQlqcGc/3d6f21a9/551/Cuba%20Classic%20Cars-6.jpg) goes for a paltry $262k This statement is just straight up not true. Cuba is not embargoed by any state besides the U.S. and has access to the European and Japanese etc car markets: there are a lot of new cars there now. This is an article from a year and a half ago discussing the influx of Chinese cars:

http://www.cnbc.com/id/102279510 It used to be the case, however, that the public couldn't buy those cars. Imported cars were for state officials and the VERY well-connected. It's only recently that Cuba has begun to relax its strict economic policies - [this article indicates](http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/29/uk-cuba-cars-idUSLNE78S01I20110929) that they've only been able to purchase new cars since late 2011. Maybe now. In the past CUba wasnt exactly rich so buying new cars wasnt an option for 99% of the population. Also import duties on a communist state like cuba is nothing to laugh about. I am sure government officials can afford new cars but everyone else... Yeah a ferrari with a russian engine, bmw doors, ford air intakes and whittled tractor tires will be worth tons

to me at least 'I built it one piece at a time, and it didn't cost me a dime' 'You'll know it's me when I come through your toowwwn' Well, It's a '49, '50, '51, '52, '53, '54, '55, '56, '57, '58' 59' automobile I was there last month.  I think you mean there is no new AMERICAN cars.  You could see the odd cheap Kia driving around which I believe are government cars. They were probably purchased within the last 4-5 years.  But I know there is a running joke that the one car dealership in Cuba is called a museum because no one can actually afford any of the commercially available cars. The newer model cars are there but they are from China, Korea, maybe Russia. Kia, Hyundai. Source: me, visited there with family in March. My husband's grandfather came to the US in 1929, 15 of us went there to visit the Cuban cousins and is was amazing.  A makeshift repair only means you didn't have the right resources to make the proper repair. Which means you would have to be a good mechanic to make a makeshift repair especially under these circumstances. If you think about how their society has been structured, the mechanics they have are probably genius level guys who have grown up making due with what was necessary and available. If you can keep those old cars alive in their circumstances for the past generation you've got to have amazing skills. They might be extremely specialized, but "seriously good" is still completely accurate a descriptor.  This movie [Havana Motor Club](https://vimeo.com/123633476) looks like it gets into great detail of their mechanics and classic cars in Cuba. It's amazing to me how you reversed "off" and "of" there. &gt; a decent amount off money of that too

there seems to have been a mistake made here... My girlfriend's father (an Orthodontist) just came back from Cuba for a medical seminar. He said the average dentist in Cuba makes about $140 a month. And there was a room in the hospital where they had latex gloves drying on a clothesline with no autoclaves in site. He said he was tipping everyone because $40 was like months pay.  Yeah right.  They'll bottom dollar them just like they do everyone else.

"You know $14.00 is a lot of money for a Cuban... I was doing HIM a favor." Maybe. Flooding the market with a lot of one type of product won't exactly send prices UP.  Oh great, another *yanqui* that has never been on the Island and had no clue what horrible condition most of the Yank Tanks are in, and the fools who fatasize about mint condition 53 desotos that upvote him.

My friend, there's very few decent old cars in Cuba.  Most of them are bogged together with plaster and bailing wire, they roll on soviet truck tires and have lada motors.  They are slathered in house paint and have flashlights for headlamps.  They're rolling junk piles. That sounds cool in it's own right, though. Like a 1950s, Caribbean version of Mad Max. I can't put my finger on why, but I like the way you write.  The government would be silly not to offer Cubans to trade in their old cars for new ones so that they can put them in a museum in Havana.  I think people want to see these automobiles as a one of a kind collection.  I hope they don't disappear into private collections. Lol Cuba will do no such thing. Why put them in museums when people will come to see them on the road!  They won't go to collections but they will disappear.  The vast majority of them are not valuable or really that interesting as far as cars go.  It's a bunch of common old cars that have been driven daily for 65 years and fixed in makeshift ways.  They are beaten to hell and back with probably almost no original parts left. More than 99% of those cars are not worth anything more than scrap metal. The cars people keep referring to are frankensteined together abominations.  They're ugly, hacked together, painted with house paint.  The current issue is Cubans can't **afford** a new car, nor can the government afford to subsidize creating a museum of rotten out old shell beater cars.   When they building the toll road from Key West? That is 90 something miles. 

Good freaking luck. With such a hurricane prone region I am surprised those Key West bridges even survive some don't

https://c2.staticflickr.com/6/5186/5645343056_c048c6022b_b.jpg


http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seven_Mile_Bridge True they do get taken out, however that picture is of 7 mile bridge. 

7 mile bridge was taken out by a hurricane when it was a railroad bridge, repaired, turned into an automobile bridge, then replaced with a new bridge that runs next to it now. The picture you posted shows the end of the current missing section where they removed what used to be the swing bridge section. 

You're not wrong, just wanted to clarify that 7 mile bridge was partially dismantled to its current state, not destroyed. 

Also they're about to restore the whole thing. Yay.  Thanks Obama Do you want bots? Because this is how you get bots.  Also, Joe the shotgun Biden needs some thanks too. Thanks Biden [deleted] well aint that some shit. YES it is! Mfw I'm Cuban american reading these Cuba threads

 :D  \&gt;Mfw I'm also Cuban and seeing the words "Cuba" and "Cuban" all over Reddit lately.

\&gt;Mfw I find another Cuban on Reddit. What's up acere!!  And today a cuban redditor discovered that the only other cuban redditor alongside him/her is named JackMeoffPlease I have to represent us lol!  Hey, am I late? Cuban here, Miami  Oh, shit, now there's three of us. We're multiplying. Cuatro Vaya otro ma.  A Cuban in Miami, no way! Another Cuban here! I'm all the way up in Illinois! Asere qu vol Interesting. Generally, cuban-americans have been against ending the embargo. Depends on your age your political preference but in general the older people don't want it to happen cause they're salty about what happened to their country. Younger people don't really mind it, it's cool that we can hopefully see where our grandparents, parents came from. My dad wants the embargo to stay intact but my mom doesn't want it to.  Boricua in Miami, can't wait to visit.  San Juan Havana Punta Cana cruise would be awesome Elian is gonna be so happy. &gt;1. Family visits

&gt;2. Official business of the U.S. government, foreign governments, and certain intergovernmental organizations

&gt;3. Journalistic activity

&gt;4. Professional research and professional meetings

&gt;5. Educational activities

&gt;6. Religious activities

&gt;7. Public performances, clinics, workshops, athletic and other competitions, and exhibitions

&gt;8. Support for the Cuban people

&gt;9. Humanitarian projects

&gt;10. Activities of private foundations or research or educational institutes

&gt;11. Exportation, importation, or transmission of information or information materials

&gt;12. Certain export transactions that may be considered for authorization under existing regulations and guidelines.

Seems like fitting into one of these should be pretty easy, especially if you don't necessarily have to prove it to anyone. Now just bring on the Cubans... GIRLS AND CIGARS  Cuban rum is pretty good too. 

Havana Club anyone? Yes http://imgur.com/7MoLxq9 :D You can buy that stuff in most supermarkets.  Not in America! If you have a sweet tooth, Legendario Elixir de Cuba is what you should look for:
http://i.imgur.com/2GFRpkI.jpg Advice from a Canadian, bring food. I know this is an important moment but all I can think about is Cuban sandwiches. Very gracious of our government to let us travel somewhere.  We should thank our generous leaders. All I want to know is when can I take a road trip down to Florida on my motorcycle and then end up riding it around fucking Cuba.  Anybody who actually knows, can you give me the run-down on the current state of government oppression and totalitarian rule in Cuba? It's my understanding that it has not ended. Raul has made it a bit better. He made it so Cubans can legally have computers, buy cars, buy/sell homes, visit their own resorts (until then Cubans basically had tourism apartheid), made it easier for some Cubans to leave the country, and is letting go of goverment workers so they can move into the free market, letting Cubans operate small businesses. There's been a lot of market reforms. 

There's still a crazy amount of censorship. It's the most censored country in the Western hemisphere. 

A black Cuban lost his job for writing about racism in the NY Times even though he was supporting the revolution. An open mic to express opinions in a public place isn't allowed.

http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/31/opinion/cuba-turns-off-critics-open-mic.html

http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/06/world/americas/writer-of-times-op-ed-on-racism-in-cuba-loses-job.html

A recent poll showed the opinions of Cubans in regards to their goverment.

&gt;* 75 percent of Cubans including 80 percent of 18-49 year olds  said they have to be careful what they say in public, while only 19 percent said they feel they can express themselves freely in public.

&gt;* 
    39 percent of Cubans said they are satisfied with the political system, while 53 percent said they are dissatisfied.

&gt;* 32 percent of Cubans have a positive view of the Communist Party, while 58 percent say they have a negative view of the ruling party. 52 percent said Cuba should have more than one party. 46 percent said they have a positive view of opposition groups, while 33 percent have a negative view and 21 percent said they dont know or didnt answer.

&gt;* 97 percent of Cubans think normalization of relations with U.S. is good for Cuba. And 58 percent think it favors Cuba more than the U.S.

&gt;* 64 percent of Cubans think new relations with the U.S. will lead to changes in their economic system, but only 37 percent think it will lead to changes in the political system.

&gt;* 16 percent say they have access to Internet, and just 28 percent of those people say they access the Internet every day.

&gt;*  70 percent of Cubans would like to own their own business.

&gt;* 79 percent are dissatisfied with the economic system, while only 19 percent of Cubans say they are satisfied.

http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/the_americas/poll-shows-vast-majority-of-cubans-welcome-closer-ties-with-us/2015/04/08/6285bfe4-d8c3-11e4-bf0b-f648b95a6488_story.html
 Story time.  Went on my second trip to Cuba this past March (my first visit was in December of 07).  My maternal grandfather came to the US in 1929, well before the shitstorm, so I was able to visit cousins in Holgun (la cervezera de Cuba), then went and toured Havana.  I felt more comfortable around uniformed police and security officials (the women wore uniforms that featured some sweet short-shorts) than I do in the US--they are friendlier.  Funny story:  I toured the Castillo Morro in Santiago de Cuba with fifteen American family members and about as many Cuban family members.  There were huge iguanas sunning themselves on the castle walls.  My wife told the (barely) bilingual tour guide that they reminded her of her pet bearded dragons, and produced her iPhone to show her (the tour guide) pictures.  The tour guide asked me, in Spanish, about the bearded dragons--what kind of reptiles they were.  I replied that I didn't know much about them--that they were my wife's thing.  Somewhere in the discussion, I mispronounced the Spanish word for bearded dragon--I said "dragon barbado" instead of "dragon barbudo".  Easy mistake, as the participle is normally made by adding -ado (not -udo) to the stem.  I corrected myself, saying "dragon barbudo--como Fidel" (dragon with a beard--like Fidel).  There was a moment of awkward silence--then everyone cracked a smile, and then busted out with all-out laughter.

Similar story:  We were in La Habana at a tour of a cigar factory.  My American nephew, who is interested in the political/economical aspects of communism, asked the tour guide what motivated the factory workers to work so hard and produce so much.  The guide said that they get paid more than many Cuban workers, and get perks like free cigars.  I saw a sign on the wall that said "Por el Socialismo" or something, and said "and also, there's always 'el socialismo'."  The guide laughed, and said sotto voce, "Listen, that's boolsheet." And since the fucking Cuban govt is still a dictatorship, we wont see any Cubans here on reddit commenting


 [FERRIES](http://i.ytimg.com/vi/4pV_NfTSctI/hqdefault.jpg) There's been an unofficial ferry running from Cuba to Florida for years. You have to swim the last bit though.  How long would such a ferry take? It seems like it would be such a short plane ride, so why bother with a boat? Anyone know what stock I should I should invest in? Does this mean that anyone can go, or are there still BS rules about educational purposes or whatever? I just want to go down for a cool vaca. From Tampa, I could take a drive to Ft Myers, catch the ferry to Key West, and then a ferry to Havana. It'd be quicker than driving to Atlanta. Just in time for hurricane season! Time to get my dusty old Guayabera out of the closet.  To all the Americans that can travel to Cuba now... Go. It is such a beautiful place with so much to see. I cannot recommend it any more I'd love to visit Cuba, problem is, there is going to be a language barrier. I'm fluent in Spanish, but don't understand a fucking word Cubans say when they speak it. I fondly remember the first time I rode a Cuban fairy. His name was Eduardo.  Im very excited for the day i will be able to freely travel to cuba. Amazing food beautiful women and scenery a day ive been dreaming about since i was young... Truly you seem to be the only person saying there is good food We barely gave the embargo enough time to really kick in. It's only been 50 years. Everyone knows you don't start seeing the impact of a trade embargo until at least year 60.  This doesn't end the embargo... and by the way Congress works it can easily be 60 or more years of embargo. COCKTAILS FOR EVERYONE ! What happens to Cubans seeking asylum now?  Are they still getting on boats and seeking political asylum when they hit florida or has that way of achieving legal residency ended for them?   As soon as they step on dry land in the USA they are still granted asylum. And the first people on the ferry TO Cuba will be a boatload of FBI agents looking for Joanne Chesimar.

I guarantee it. Very classy move considering our tension with Russia. I hope it's not a diversion. Fly out of Canada. Spring Break 2017!!! Spring Break in Cuba I really hope this ends up kind of just being like the ferry boat between Sweden and Finland I used to travel from England to Ireland and back again on ferries. Years ago it was hit and miss, very choppy seas, usually if you decided to eat before or during your trip, your food would pop back up to say hello!.  With technology the ferries have gotten better, but it wasn't a long trip even years ago it was 4 hours tops, but you can get there in under 2 hours now.

What's the seas like going from Florida to Cuba? The fact this WC hasn't already been taken from them is completely insane. FIFA is such a joke. The joke is that anyone expects FIFA to take responsibility. They've proven to everyone that they're pure evil. What boggles my mind is that not a single member nation has stood up and said "We will not compete in the Qatar World Cup, because football tournaments should not have four figure body counts." Seriously though, look at their ridiculous conference room. [It screams bond villain.](http://l.yimg.com/os/publish-images/sports/2014-04-23/f43c2160-cb15-11e3-b193-f1844d10ad86_15_FIFA_I_Exekutive-komitee_1792.jpg) [Gentlemen, you can't fight in here!  This is the War Room!](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/85/Dr._Strangelove_-_The_War_Room.png) MIEN FUHRER!!! I CAN WALK!!!! *MEIN* *"I" before "E" except before the fuhrer.* A feller could have a good weekend in Vegas with that reference. Fun fact: that line was originally "Dallas", but it was overdubbed with "Vegas" because of the Kennedy assassination in Dallas, which happened the day the first test screening was supposed to take place.

I'm glad that was changed, since nobody sees Dallas as a very fun city anymore. Actually Dallas is a wonderful city. Deep Ellum is a lot of fun. wow it does &gt; because football tournaments should not have body counts

FTFY I hope that becomes the rallying cry. I want that trending on every social media outlet. \#GoalsNotGraves YES THIS IS EXCEPTIONAL Shit.. I'm in \#SavesNotSlaves Did you come up with this, bc a few people are in fact using it on Twitter. I did, but I wouldn't be surprised if other people came up with it independently. I was just going for something alliterative and football related, and \#BallsNotBodybags didn't sound right. \#BloodRedCard was another option, but that could use something, I think it's too vague. Your post is older than the oldest Twitter post, so you should go ahead and claim it. It's absolutely ridiculous that people are dying for a soccer tournament to be played. It's a fucking game (that I love) and FIFA has managed to turn it into something terrible.  They are dying for money to be made. Its a tale as old as time. I'm pretty sure every tournament gets at least one freebie. One violent riot per Stanley Cup is allowed in Canada. Depends on if somehow Vancouver and Montreal play in the finals... This will trigger a riot in both cities....win or loose... Wouldn't a Candian team need to make a final first?  As some sort of reaction to losing the final. Brazil probably got 7 for the price of 1  [deleted] The fans do care though. I'm yet to speak to anyone (UK) or see any credible and respected publication that supports the World Cup [(without persuasion of course.)](http://deadspin.com/espn-writer-takes-all-expenses-paid-trip-to-qatar-love-1469590906) 

The problem is translating that directionless public outrage into results. Boycotts are never realistically going to happen, so instead people should be encouraged to stream the games for free. Someone could make a website with all the FIFA and WC sponsors, their email and office address and a form letter to email/post to each one. 

What I'm saying is that it's the lack of direction that's the problem, not the lack of morals. [deleted] You'll never convince football fans to not watch the games or buy merchandise. It's like when /r/gaming gets distressed and tearful about something and proclaims a mass boycott, and then everyone forgets about it and buys whatever anyway.  

Armchair activism is cheap and lazy, I agree. However, unlike FIFA and Qatar, the sponsors are a realistic target since they actually care about their image. They will back down the second public opinion turns against them rather than Qatar or FIFA. &gt; You'll never convince football fans to not watch the games or buy merchandise. 

Then its simple:  The problem isnt going away. It boggles my mind that no players have spoken out about this.  A lot of them might very well have been told to keep their opinions to themselves by their clubs/leagues etc. Also, let's be honest, a lot of football players aren't exactly the sharpest pencils in the box. They're athletes, they're good at what they do but they're not gifted public speakers or human rights activists. Some are, of course, and those *should* speak up.  You don't have to be a great speaker to say "I won't play in the world cup of it is held in Qatar". Do you often speak out against your bosses &amp; employers, even if you don't agree with them? no, but then, my disagreements with my bosses and employers is usually about the break room, task assignment and time off. not murder, human trafficking, and slavery. Would you do it if it meant risking your dream job, and possibly your career? This is my honest answer to what I would do. It may sound inhumane or selfish, but I sat back and thought about it and was brutally honest with myself about what I would do if that were me: 

I would probably not say anything directly, but I would try my best efforts (that couldn't be traced back to me) to get as much opposition rallying up and to get other big names with brass balls to speak up. I would also try to put my 'feelers out' to see what other employees' opinions were on the issue, and then if I felt like the majority would stick together and go against the grain I would take the chance and set it in motion by standing up first.

Losing your way of life, your dream job, your career, and having a real life target on your back and affecting you and possibly everyone around you negatively for a while, would be very tough thing to go up against. so if I were to go against the grain I'd have to have some certainty that I wouldn't wreck my life and those around me before I went 'all-in'.

I'm kinda ashamed at what my real thought/reaction would be when I just asked myself your question, but it is art least honestly probably what I would do I guess. :/

Edit: words. mobile autocorrect errors. You've pretty much explained what every "good" police officer goes through on a daily basis when they see the piece of shit pigs they work with abuse their authority.  Not that it has anything to do with what you're talking about. No professional football player is going to get fired or kicked off the team for speaking out against human rights abuse in Qatar.  There are only two teams that can stop a World Cup: Brazil and whoever is the defending champion (Germany this time).

If they drop out, then no one else would be interested in earning a title that will forever carry an asterisk next to it.

I don't think Brazil is ever going to drop out, they are obsessed with football and the government knows damn well that there would be riots in the streets if they don't participate.

That leaves Germany, a first world country with a strong socialist culture (at least in theory). They are the only ones that FIFA will listen to. Germany has a strong culture of social democracy, not socialism. They have become the economic powerhouse of Europe whilst having workers involved in companies on a scale that politicians in the UK would shudder at.  Politicians in the UK shudder at the thought of changing their evening tea hours. I think it would require a joint action by the UEFA teams, something that could in theory happen at least. 

If Spain, Italy, Germany, England and so on dropped out, there would be no World Cup. FIFA is the ones making sure that crazy shit happens. They're not just ignoring bad conditions, they're actively doing whatever they can to milk that country for all their money. According to an [interview with Mark Lobel](http://www.marketplace.org/topics/world/what-qatar-doesnt-want-you-know-about-2022-world-cup) on Marketplace (on NPR), his team was originally invited to Qatar by the Qatar government to report on Qatar's improvements to worker conditions. Apparently Qatar's PR stunt didn't work out as intended. If you end up watching the damn thing, than you're no better than FIFA, yet countless people who are moaning about human rights violations will ultimately end up as viewers.   You know an organization is corrupt when this big of an issue comes up and they just don't even give a fuck. Just issue a statement about how they are "working" on it and move on to further not giving a fuck. And of course I am sure billions will still watch this World Cup anyways. If we don't mind buying clothes from slave labor, why would we care about football. Well, all they really care about is money and profit. 

"Fuck slave labor and human rights. I've got mine."

is probably their mentality.  Doubt that's their mentality. It's easy to imagine others in black and white but the truth is always more complex. Human beings are amazing at hiding evil from themselves. I imagine most of FIFA thinks "Well it can't be helped now" or "What could I possibly do?" and the few higher ups who have the power to do something have rationalized it away, since acknowledging it would be admitting that they're corrupt and incompetent. Doesn't absolve them of responsibility though. &gt; the few higher ups who have the power to do something have rationalized it away, since acknowledging it would be admitting that they're corrupt and incompetent. Doesn't absolve them of responsibility though.

Who says people aren't okay with being corrupt? Some are okay with itand the FIFA/sponsor higher-ups might bebut that doesn't mean they necessarily are. Or "It's not like we can give the bribe money back." [Shit happened with the last World Cup stadium](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_2014_FIFA_World_Cup_controversies#Construction), too. Did anything happen? Nope. Did anyone at FIFA give a fuck? Nope. Did the game still go down and [make enormous amounts of money](http://worldsoccertalk.com/2014/07/27/fifa-generated-2-billion-profit-from-2014-world-cup-in-brazil-says-report/)? [Fuckin' A](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5F_CDckDSMU&amp;t=34s). FIFA is really stupid.  On top of all the human rights violations in Qatar they logistically can't play the games there.  It will be to hot for both players and fans.  They've even talked about playing the games overnight due to this issue.  Not trying to minimize the human rights issues.  It just shows how blindly FIFA follows money over common sense.  If the games are held in Qatar I wil not watch any of it. FIFA's brilliant plan is to move the World Cup to the winter months of 2022 instead. I would seriously love to see the top clubs refuse to release their players for the tournament  A real possibility. It's still pretty far away so big clubs might even put it in contracts of players they buy.  Siberia World Cup 2022 I count 11 fatalities total. For Qatar it's close to 200 deaths per year, with 7 years to go...

Not the same situation.  11 isn't too bad, really. Construction fatalities are statistically extremely rare but they do happen. With such an enormous project a few deaths are sadly inevitable. Even in the US, which has much stricter safety standards than Brazil, it happens. a little bit of that blame should go to brazil's leaders for incompetence. but of course, fifa awarding the honour to such an incompetent country is also a mark of incompetence.

"Never ascribe to malice that which is adequately explained by incompetence." - somebody That somebody sure is smart. [John Oliver](https://youtu.be/DlJEt2KU33I) tells it how it is.  But the players! How can they play under 50 degree heat, am I doomed to watch players passing out on screen?  At least the falls won't be fake. They're building massive air conditioning units to cool the stadiums. Qatar even has air conditioned *beaches* to cool the sand for tourists because it's so hot it'll burn your feet.

EDIT: I've been told 5 times now that they ended up not building the air conditioned stadiums. They claimed they were, but then decided against it.  Last I heard they were going the "have it in winter" route instead of the "massive air conditioners" route. But really who the fuck knows at this point. Every option other than "don't have it in Qatar" is pretty terrible, but that's the one they're least likely to go with. It's supposed to be in the winter now, which sucks because it will really mess up the schedule for almost all European leagues. The leagues will be forced to play a lot of games in a very short amount of times, which is very dangerous for the players.  Not just Euro leagues, all our leagues in the Asian conference follow a similar schedule to yours precisely because it makes it easier and the world cup viable. Winter in Qatar... So 45 C instead of 50? Well, pretty good football weather in December-February really. [Highs of 24-27.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qatar#Climate)

Still no interest in seeing the Cup there but it'll likely go on. Didn't they decide using air conditioning for an entire stadium was not feasible, so now they're just installing giant fans? Yes. After they won the bid. No, that is what they promised to win the contract. Later they said they couldn't actually do it. The latest plan I heard was changing the time frame to be in winter months.  Ah. Well let's chalk it up to one more fucking reason why we shouldn't have it in Qatar. Honestly any non-democracy shouldn't be allowed to host it. It legitimizes them as part of the international community.  Agreed.  Wait, really?  Can we all just never go to Qatar? I've been there. It's not fun. Granted I was stuck on an Air Force base outside Doha.  Good ole Al Udeid. It's a disclosed location now, you can say the name. That changed right before I was there last. Looks like I might be headed there a third time soon.  Yeah....10 months total there, and I just dodged the bullet on trip number 4. Tanker life yo. Oh no shit it's disclosed now?  I went out there back in 2008-2009.  God I hated that place.  Everyone kept calling it a vacation deployment.. and it was if you were on R&amp;R there.  But working the flightline in that heat was just god awful every single day. Do you have any IDEA how much fucking money is at stake here?  Human rights  be damned! I really wish that corporations would bail, but I just don't see it happening. We keep hearing about this every couple of months and yet nothing happens. The can is going to be kicked down the road until everyone has too much invested in the games and won't bail regardless of what other controversy comes up. They could be raping children systematically and the world wouldn't care. People would still watch. Advertisers will still sponsor since people still watch. You just convinced the British Parliament to sponsor this event. Didn't Sony and Emirates Airlines bail out of the event? Those are the top-tier sponsors, FIFA is expecting them to be replaced by Samsung and you guessed it... Qatar Airways.

Castrol, Johnson &amp; Johnson, Continental are pulling out as 2nd tier.

Budweiser and McDonald's are signed for 2018. No word on 2022

[Source](http://www.nydailynews.com/sports/soccer/fifa-sponsors-won-renew-2018-world-cup-russia-article-1.2089235)

If you want change, stop drinking Bud and eating McDs. Both are crap anyways.

If you actually want to step away from Inbev Busch Budweiser you will have to boycott an entire list of beers though. Maccas will go when their contract expires. After all, they also have the Olympics, and will be mortified of the possible bad press by staying. Budweiser on the other hand will stick around, as they want the International marketing that being affiliated with the international tournament that is the World cup. Corporations really don't have an incentive unless they start getting bad PR from supporting it, the best would actually be to make the main countries bail. If Brazil, Argentina and/or Germany bail, something will happen. LOL they had the F1 races in some horrible place while the people there were being carted off and tortured for going outside. 

No lives matter should be the true mantra of earth. Yeah, Bahrain was a fuckup and they still continue to go there despite it being a pretty bad circuit and there being little fan base.  Money talks I guess.

 In fairness to F1, it boycotted the South African race after 1985 due to apartheid.  But it was part of wider global boycotts on the country's sporting events and they'd raced there since the 60's previously. Another way for this to fall apart is for the leagues to leave FIFA. If UEFA leaves FIFA, then FIFA would pretty much lose all authority, and the World Cup would be meaningless. If UEFA quits, the FA would also likely follow and FIFA would disintegrate. Why should corporations be the driving force? Why can't the fans quit using products made by sponsors and quit going to games? Two predictions:  
1. World Cup sponsors respond to the horrific treatment and bail out:  
Qatar takes it out on the workers and treatment worsens.  
**or:**  
2. World Cup sponsors do nothing and:  
Qatar realizes they can still get away with this and treatment worsens. &gt;1. World Cup sponsors respond to the horrific treatment and bail out: Qatar takes it out on the workers and treatment worsens.

This is not what usually happens when a country is put under serious, meaningful pressure to clean up its act.  Punishing the workers further will only sour future dealings, now that the world is looking closely at them. &gt; This is not what usually happens when a country is put under serious, meaningful pressure to clean up its act. 

To be honest, Qatar probably does not give a shit as long as they can drag it out until the games and afterwards it does not really matter to them anymore. Furthermore, I am afraid they are more than likely best friends with many officials so the "punishment" is more likely going to be nothing. Tell that to South Africa and apartheid. It can happen, but it takes alot of effort by lots of groups. 

Of course for every South Africa, there are many more examples of countries getting away with murder (literally).  News agencies have been reporting for over a year that migrant workers are basically slaves. They are not in possession of their visas and cannot leave. They are literally being worked to death and no one cares.

Some of the players have been voicing concerns about playing in a desert and the sponsors have deals with players. Now they're concerned. Winter World Cup. In a shithole country that is literally working slaves to death to build the stadiums. Seriously, WTF Fifa.  Canada would gladly host the World Cup. It's #2, except you forgot the part where Qatar pays a fine/bribe to FIFA of a couple hundred million dollars to cover any sponsors who are having second thoughts. We are entering a new age in which this type of stuff likely will be rampant and tolerated as the west takes a step back from involvement in world affairs.  When you say "the west" do you mean entire government entities like the U.S.? If so, why should they? If there is a moral obligation, then why only the powerful countries? Why not all countries? It seems as if the U.S. rarely helps countries in an adequate manner that doesn't have serious repercussions... Domestically, tax payers are getting tired of being seen as the enemies when a major campaign is launched and the rest of the world criticizes the results. Why would anyone want to give their money to a cause that the government either botches or is criticized to the point where it doesn't seems appreciated?

I'm an American and have been following the Qatari injustice in relation to migrant workers for a few years now, but I would rather see private organizations get involved to make a change. If all sponsorship was actually pulled (or at least the major ones) then FIFA would be forced to reconsider. If America got involved, it would be seen as yet another form of imperial force rooted in spreading democratic ideologies through the world. 

I may be a little extreme/cynical, but I would be interested to hear others thoughts on the manner.  I think being the world police is getting old for us. Especially when everyone yells, "fuck the police". It's just a lose-lose situation. People will cry "WHY AREN'T YOU HELPING THEM!?"

Then when the US steps in to help, "THEY HAVE ULTERIOR MOTIVES. THEY'RE TRYING TO FORCE THEIR POLITICAL IDEOLOGIES ON OTHERS."

There is no winning. Thats what happens when you are the biggest kid on the block.  And, you know, forcefully impose authoritarian regimes on other nations.

I mean, with all due respect, as we speak the US is participating in Saudi Arabia's invasion of Yemen, openly and officially supplying them with armaments, intelligence, and conducting an outright blockade on Yemen itself. 

That's not democracy, liberation, or self determination by any stretch of the imagination.

That's not a lose-lose situation, that's a "you're literally helping *Saudi-Arabia* invade a nation in the midst of a civil war and decide who they want to win" situation. The notion that anybody is going to cry "why aren't you supporting Saudi-Arabia's military" is absurd.

And let's be honest: how many Americans here can *truthfully* say they were aware of this before right now to begin with? Well only if you became the biggest kid on the block through constant interference and regime toppling to ensure your global influence / dominance.  People getting treated like shit had never gotten us involved. Third Prediction:
3. The exposure of the shitty treatment of workers forces Qatar to improve the treatment of the workers since Qatar is trying to sell itself. Ha! That's a good one! "We wish we could get away with treating workers like that" 
~sponsors. And lose all that exposure and money?

This is business, they don't give a shit when billions are still going to watch.  How to get good exposure:

Step 1: "Coke bails from World Cup sponsorship, claims human rights is more important than any amount of exposure"

Step 2: "Coke wins Nobel Prize for taking a stand against FIFA"

Step 3: "Official Vatican statement: Pope Francis confirms God prefers Coke over Pepsi" Nice to know God made the right decision  Future versions of the bible have Jesus turning water into Coke.  and Judas was paid 30 cans of Pepsi. And the Nil turned into Pepsi Pepsi was the 8th plague of Egypt. Eve took a Pepsi from the tree of suds.  God flooded the world with Pepsi, dove returned to Noah bearing a can of Coke. Goliath was defeated by the coca cola panda bear Future Christianity in huge Schism over Coca-Cola Drinking Christians and Cocaine Snorting Christians Marriage between a Pepsi drinker and a Coke drinker is banned. And then he gets absolutely crucified for trademark infringement. Fucking heathens.

It is clearly stated in the Sugar Bull of 2015 that the varieties of soda are all just aspects of a singular beverage.  Coke, Pepsi, RC are the components of modern carbonated beverage trinitarianism.

Root Beer is satan's drink.

Dr. Pepper is... well, its neither cola, nor Root Beer.  No one can be sure.  It is the agnostic drink. [Called it.](http://i.imgur.com/UN089g2.jpg) Well I know Nike and Nestle would never stand for human rights abuses.  At least some sponsors have integrity  It's called bad PR. That's the reason why many of the sponsors have already bailed, including Sony and Emirates airline. If you'd like to try to encourage the remaining sponsors to also bail, I encourage you to join me in voicing your opinion to them.  I know sending a letter isn't much, but it's better than nothing and it has the chance to land on the radar of someone important.

If you don't know what to say, you may find this helpful. If you're too lazy to copy and paste, you can quickly fill out/customize this, click the email button to open it in your email and send it off: https://www.sincerelyme.org/civil-and-human-rights/request-to-revoke-sponsor-of-2022-fifa-world-cup-in-qatar_i48

It takes no more than 20 seconds - and it's an easy way to do a little part in things.

----

Here's a list: https://thomasthethinkengine.files.wordpress.com/2014/06/screen-shot-2014-06-25-at-11-58-04-am.png (mirror: http://imgur.com/tx7VddF)

I'm having trouble finding information on who exactly sponsors them, but it's a start for now. If anybody can help me with the more complete list and or contacts, please let me know.


----

Dear {Company Name},

I'm writing to encourage you to revoke your sponsorship of the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. Even in the face of clear human rights violations, intense public pressure, and four thousand deaths, FIFA has done little to effectively address abusive and exploitative labor being used to build the stadiums and infrastructure for the event.  Rewarding FIFA with continued sponsorship not only encourages their abuse, bribery, and corruption but suggests {Company Name} operates under the same abusive and corrupt policies.

Since money is, obviously, the only language FIFA speaks, I'm asking that you redirect your sponsorship dollars to more honorable events.

Sincerely,

{Your Name}



 This is a good letter. I have a few edits you may wish to incorporate.

Change

&gt;FIFA has done little to effectively address abusive and exploitative labor being used to build the stadiums and infrastructure for the event.

to

&gt; FIFA has not effectively addressed abusive and exploitative labor being used to build the stadiums and infrastructure for the event.

Change

&gt; Rewarding FIFA with continued sponsorship not only encourages their abuse, bribery, and corruption but suggests {Company Name} operates under the same abusive and corrupt policies.

to

&gt; Rewarding FIFA with your sponsorship encourages its continued abuse, bribery, and corruption of those unfortunates duped into quasi-slavery. Such reward further suggests that {Company Name} operates under a framework devoid of even the most basic respect for its fellow humans, and is complicit in their continued abuse.

Change

&gt; Since money is, obviously, the only language FIFA speaks, I'm asking that you redirect your sponsorship dollars to more honorable events.

to

&gt; I call upon you to redirect your sponsorship dollars to more honorable agencies, and in so doing, publicly reject FIFA's corrupt policies in the only manner they appear unable to ignore. **Some contact details**

(With thanks to /u/bahkesh - /r/unitedkingdom thread [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/unitedkingdom/comments/36gylp/not_happy_about_the_world_cup_in_qatar_here_are/))

Adidas			
PR Department: corporate.press@adidas-group.com 

UK CEO: Gil.Steyaert@adidas-group.com

CEO: Herbert.Hainer@adidas-group.com

Gazprom			
PR Department: pr@gazprom.ru 

Chairman: Andrei Akimov a.akimov@adm.gazprom.ru

Hyundai			
Head of PR: natasha.waddington@hyundai-car.co.uk 

CEO: Bo Shin Seo bsseo@hmil.net

Kia				
UK Chairman: pphilpott@kia.co.uk

McDonald's		
PR : Press@us.mcd.com 

CEO Steve Easterbrook steve.easterbrook@us.mcd.com

Budweiser		
PR: media@anheuser-busch.com

CEO Carlos Brito carlos.brito@inbev.com

Coca-Cola         
Uk Press office:  gbpressofficemail@coca-cola.com                 

CEO : Mr Muhtar Kent mukent@na.ko.com

Visa.                       
CEO Charles W. Scharf cscharf@visa.com

PR Team visa@hillandknowlton.com 

Cut'n'Paste list:
corporate.press@adidas-group.com, Gil.Steyaert@adidas-group.com, Herbert.Hainer@adidas-group.com, pr@gazprom.ru, a.akimov@adm.gazprom.ru, natasha.waddington@hyundai-car.co.uk, bsseo@hmil.net, pphilpott@kia.co.uk, Press@us.mcd.com, steve.easterbrook@us.mcd.com, media@anheuser-busch.com, carlos.brito@inbev.com, gbpressofficemail@coca-cola.com, mukent@na.ko.com, cscharf@visa.com, visa@hillandknowlton.com 


Twitter Accounts:
@adidas, @GazpromFootball, @Hyundai, @Kia, @McDonalds, @Budweiser, @CocaCola, @Visa Emirates?  FFS, like the UAE is better.  They only find problem with a competing regime. If only a few sponsors bail, they'd probably get much at least as much exposure as each of the many sponsors of the World Cup.

plus PR What if a group gets enough money to buy commercial time during the world cup and all the commercial is is a short expose on all the horrid stuff that's going on? That'd scare a lot of sponsors away. This won't happen but if it does I'll be so fucking happy.  The same big corporations that sponsor the world cup don't give a shit about workers either.  I doubt they'll boycott Qatar. A lot of companies pulled their support over the backlash.  For the backslash , not because they give a shit. Otherwise the Brazil Cup wouldn't had any sponsors either  Doesn't matter why; outcome is the same at least. Perhaps true, but if they weren't risking millions of dollars they'd take the PR credit for caring. a little context. I worked in the middle east and even there the running joke was how poorly Qatar treats it's workers.  without going into a long post it's just a ripe condition of an underclass of foreign workers who are ripe to being exploited by state owned or controlled contractors, a prince and construction company get rich a few hundred people will die and thousands more will work for a few dollars a day in bunk houses so they can send back a little money to home.

Really makes you understand the birth lottery of being born in a western country. These stories always do make me appreciate the birth lottery.. So unfair... This and whenever I read about the Cambodian sex trade for some reason.. I can't imagine being so desperate that you look to your daughter as a sex slave to feed a family. It disgusts and saddens me.  The world is full of horrors and I am very lucky to have the life I do.  This is bullshit. It's not a "running joke" about worker treatment in Qatar. I'm an architect working in Qatar right now for a British practice, and I've worked elsewhere in the Gulf. Qatar isn't the worst, and it's steadily getting better for workers. Anyone in the industry would know this.

Qatar is actually working really hard to solve this problem. Not because they're angels, simply because it's a lot of negative press. But every ministry, every government body keeps reiterating that this needs to be a flawless world cup, and we are seeing incremental changes on the ground. The problem is that this doesn't happen overnight. They are currently building at least 2 SML (Single Male Labourer) hospitals, and they are revamping and renovating in the shitty Industrial zone where construction workers live. And they're also building new ones like [Barwa al-Baraha](http://www.barwa.com.qa/sites/English/BusinessSegments/QatarRealEstateInvestments/BarwaAlBaraha/SitePages/Home.aspx) which will be nicer than where I lived in London to be frank with you. They've also [reformed how workers are paid]( http://www.aljazeera.com/news/2015/02/qatar-introduce-pay-reform-migrant-workers-150219111946994.html) and made [dozens of other labour reforms](http://www.gulf-times.com/qatar/178/details/421218/reforms-highlight-qatar%E2%80%99s-keenness-to-better-labour-standards). They hired the British Law firm DLA Piper [to make the labour reform recommendations](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/james-dorsey/qatar-gambles-that-labour_b_6386162.html).

Even Human Rights Watch Qatar Researcher Nicolas McGeehan said "the political will was there among some in the Qatari government to reform but "there is clearly a depth of opposition to reform that is holding back the process"." [Source](http://www.aljazeera.com/news/2015/02/hrw-qatar-labour-reforms-moving-fast-150206093621922.html).



Keep in mind that these workers are completely uneducated. These are the guys who would never get into Europe. These are the guys who would be left to drown off the coast of Europe before ever being allowed into Fortress Europe. Many can't read or write, and most have no education whatsoever. On top of that, they cut their own expenses from their meagre wages down to send some back home. How do you integrate this workforce into society? In the UK you have 10s of thousands of European migrants [living in sheds unfit for human habitation](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2525872/Brits-tolerant-migrants-not-ruled-breaking-says-Cameron-visits-filthy-beds-sheds-used-illegal-immigrants.html). Now imagine non-EU migrants with no money and no prospect and no education.



Anyway my point is this - there are positive steps being made. I've seen worse conditions in Kuwait, and I've heard of worse conditions in the UAE from friends in the industry. I deal with this stuff everyday and could share a ton of messed up stories on worker conditions and blunders made by guys who don't even know that water and electricity don't go together. My belief is that this World Cup will have a positive impact on this region. WIthout the World Cup, everything would continue unabated for several decades as it was before. Due to the negative press and international pressure, I think Qatar will have by far the best system for workers in this region, and that will in turn put pressure on its neighbours to reform.



TLDR: Qatar isn't worst in the region. Things were shit. Getting steadily better.

 Any chance soccer fans might protest this by not watching it?

Seriously, though, this is a horrible situation. It would be great if at least ONE big name player would take a stand and stay home in protest. Someone like Messi/Ronaldo or whoever is an up-and-comer for 2022.  

They would undeniably face enormous backlash at home, but would be completely justified and could bring huge awareness to the issue.

Even if someone came out right now and said they aren't going to attend unless things improve, that could have a great impact. They may also attract supporters from their fellow footballers. Athletes have done stuff like that before but in the end it never really turns out to be worth it. They'd be better off showing up and protesting on the field in front of the cameras or something. Like score a goal and rip off your jersey revealing an anti-Qatar message, etc. Wearing an undershirt with text and revealing it is banned. But who cares, they should still do it Ya but not showing up won't be much better if you're worried about that lol. They'll receive a yellow card for it. If a couple of the big countries threaten to pull out of the WC (Germany, England, USA), I could see a real possibility for Qatar to lose it.  That's what pisses me off, that no one's even threatened to pull out yet. Are the national football organizations that send the teams to the World Cup just as corrupt and callous as FIFA is? I'm still holding out hope that UEFA will throw a fit over how much it screws up the calendar. Versus people dying? Pathetic. There are a lot of reasonable objections to make about the Cup's being held in Qatar, but this really isn't one of them. If the traditional WC schedule can't be moved solely because it pisses off the most powerful confederation, then lots of places around the world will literally never be allowed to host the Cup just because it inconveniences UEFA. Most confederations already arrange play around the Cup, and UEFA can and should do the same.

The Qatari bid is a horror show because of the almost-certain bribes involved, shitty treatment of migrant workers, and the patent absurdity of Qatar's being able to use those stadiums for anything else (even assuming that they do ship parts of them elsewhere). Honestly, if FIFA had really wanted to do something groundbreaking here, they'd have asked Qatar to come back after enlisting help from other Middle Eastern nations, cleaning up its immigration system, and then making a regional, multi-state bid. It still would have been a horror show, but at least it would have been a more constructive one. I hope so too, but the UEFA has Platini, and Platini has been completely corrupted himself. He's the next Blatter.  I do believe Germany threatened to pull out.  Wasn't it either Spain or Germany that was bitching about the winter world Cup in Russia? I would think inhuman working conditions would get more of a backlash. 
 No they don't care that much Until PEOPLE (meaning you) boycott the world cup, nothing will happen. This means you don't watch the final match, you don't update the scores on the web, you don't go down to your local pub on final day, nothing will change. There is too much money to worry about human rights and human lives. We really can't count on a mass boycott unfortunately We could if people would start to hold human life above the sport. But that's not realistic for some reason. It's a pretty sad showing for humanity  You're correct that individuals should boycott it, but that won't have an immediate impact. More migrant workers die every month. If some of the major participant nations that claim to care about human rights (US, Germany, UK, etc) delivered an ultimatum to FIFA *now* ("change the venue or we walk"), it would have an effect much sooner.  I am copy pasting this from elsewhere in the thread, but:

 Tweet them, use relevant hash tags, and try to go viral. When bad PR goes viral, it forces a response.

 Some ideas I have had:

"Adidas, The official footwear of slaves in Qatar."

 "and so Jesus turned water into Coca-Cola, but the slaves in Qatar still died."

"and so Jesus turned water into Budweiser, so the slaves in Qatar could die with a buzz!"

 "McDonalds, over 180 Last Meals served. Im loving it!"

 If someone did like a high quality version of this and started spreading it around:

http://i.imgur.com/NJHStXC.jpg "LIKE this to stop human rights abuses in Qatar!" One of the Best football Club(barca) that's supported worldwide and has the best player of all time is sponsored by Qatar. 

Two of the worlds best mids are going to retire and play in Qatar. 

The richest soccer club in the world (real Madrid) opened an academy in Qatar.

One of the greatest managers in the world(Alex ferguson) backed qatar to host the WC. 

Pep guardiola could coach the qatar national team during that WC. 

The majority of the football world don't give a fuck about these complaints. Any sponsor that's dumb enough to pull out will lose a lot of money.  2022 is still a bit away, I'd bet the rhetoric builds up during the 2018 world cup. Companies and fifa will put pressure on Qatar to reform, I'm guessing the stadiums will have a good chunk completed by then.

 Or fifa will break up--I don't see the European nations, USA, Japan, Korea participating, it's not a political issue but human rights. Anyways that's where all the money is.  This doesn't really affect your point but FYI FC Barca is ending their sponsorship with Qatar next year. They won't though, no one will. The World Cup will go ahead as planned and all will be forgotten once it's over. It's annoying, but that's how I see it panning out. I really want to see the reaction the Gazprom execs have when they hear about this.  I suspect they will be trying to hold back giggles as they say *President Putin is totally committed to human rights!*. Instead of boycotting, the sponsors should team up in a joint ad campaign to lobby Qatar to improve conditions. Would be great PR for any sponsor that participates and could push Qatar to make some meaningful changes. But the likelihood of this actually happening is low This is why World Cup in Qatar is a good thing.

Without it none of you people give a FUCK about workers in Qatar. They're going to ignore it, because you're still going to watch it.  Nothing will happen until both the players and the fans take a firm, public stand against FIFA's BS. The same sponsors using 11 year old Chinese girls to make their sneakers? Ain't many 11 year old Chinese girls making these sneakers these days, maybe Laotian or Cambodian. &gt; Ain't many 11 year old Chinese girls ~~making these sneakers~~ these days

 But what's the real cost because the sneakers don't seem that much cheaper If the games are held in Qatar, it is proof that there is no moral authority remaining. How can England send a team, or the USA, knowing about this treatment? Is money really more important? Is there a dollar value Qatar can pay for the lives spent?  Let's make up some slogans for these campaigns:

MacDonald's  the only thing a starving worker won't eat.

Run faster, you piece of shit! Adidas!

Gazprom. We are Russian oil company. &gt; MacDonald's MasterCard - cause life isn't priceless.

Emirates - theres no slave going home one these planes.

Walmart - we have a new employee treatment benchmark

J&amp;J - sooth those tired limbs after a 21 hour working day.

Coca Cola - Have a coke and smile. I SAID SMILE!

Adidas - the guy that built this stadium is now earning marginally less making our shoes.



 SONY   SONY   SONY   SONY Couldn't believe that a prestigious London based PR firm invites journalists to Qatar to show them the new worker villages with improved accommodations and a four person team is arrested and thrown in jail for two nights. 

Since the expensive PR firm can't control a situation like that, Qatar can't save themselves. Good there is nothing that will cover this up or get people to forget. Having the World Cup in a scorching hot land and allegedly paying bribes to bring the tournament there - silly billies. I think in 2014, there was death every two days......

Imagine the only money maker in your family that dies in a 3rd world country......

Broken families are essentially given a slow and humiliating death... Whole thing should just be boycotted. Whole process of the Qatar world cup has been corrupt from end to end. All these sponsors don't and won't give a crap about the horrific treatment migrant workers have to endure. As long as they are selling a product, **they don't care**. Advocates can go outside and protest them, boycott their products, but when the World Cup comes around, you'll see their logos plastered all over the place, you'll memorize the obnoxious songs. And while you're watching a match, take a moment to enjoy an ice cold Coca Cola. Fuck Quatar. They shouldn't be involved with anything to with football. Who even are they? The climate to play football in is ridiculous! Will make for a terrible world cup. Then the treatment of workers is just the cherry on the cake. So Qatar was objectively one of these worst choices for this event. FIFA received a ton of criticism and accusations of bribery for the decision to even play in the shit hole called Qatar. After thousands of people died building stadiums that will be used for this one event FIFA sits back and does nothing. 7 more years and thousands of more deaths for these structures to be used for about a month? Why the fuck is FIFA allowed to exist? They are not a government and serve zero role in the betterment of life around the globe. They are a money making organization blatantly saying they do not care about human life. I strongly believe Qatar should not be able to host the event knowing what they do, but I also feel like thousands of people will have died for nothing. Though building stuff for people playing a sport is basically nothing compared to human lives, but . . . still. And after the drawn out tragedy of these thousands of workers dying I doubt the deaths will stop. This will by far be the biggest sporting event in the history of the middle east and undoubtedly an insanely coveted target for ISIS, Al Qaeda, etc. Tens of thousands of rich westerners (somewhat) on their turf with the world spotlight. The difficulties of visas, no fly lists, FBI raids, constant electronic surveillance that usually limit attacks here at home are pretty much nullified. If you attend this World Cup you not only have an extreme lack of decency, you're stupidly putting your life at risk. Someone smarter and more technically savvy than I should create a  website with a death counter (I'm not exactly sure what the number is currently at) and the logos of the six main sponsors (Sony, Adidas, Visa, Coca Cola, Budweiser, Hyundai). Coca Cola gets it sugar from El Salvador where children work the fields.

Child labor is OK, so adult slavery won't bother Coke much. 

The other sponsors likely all have similar dirt on them. 

 For latin America, that's probably true (cane sugar). But US coke gets its sugar from High Fructose Corn Syrup. [deleted] Children work fields in the U.S. All the time.  When are we gonna tell FIFA to eat shit? Seems like the way they run things, something fucked up always happens. Some interesting info about the World Cup in Brazil
http://www.fifa.com/mm/document/tournament/competition/02/36/32/63/faq_en_neutral.pdf [Thanks to ](http://i.imgur.com/uEg7JFO.jpg) /u/thx_luh_sen for the picture. If ads like this become viral, it might prompt the sponsors to rethink how their public image will be influenced by the mistreatment of workers.  I am going to get downvoted for this, but bring it on.

I am an expat living in Qatar. Everytime I see a post on Qatar and the worldcup, I laugh to myself. Qatar will host 2022 and nothing is going to stop it. FIFA is corrupt to the core and whether you like it or not, the sponsors are not interested in bringing a change. 

A lot of people act as if they are really concerned about the labourers working here. How many of you on reddit will boycott the match in 2022 and refuse to watch the broadcast? You can scream today, everything will be forgotten in 2022. I've seen long queues at embassies here, where poor labourers file complaints for not receiving salaries and other inhumane treatment. The companies are to be blamed. Everyone here is looking for cheap labour. Me along with some friends do our bit to help stuck labourers move back to their home by buying them air tickets. But the numbers keep increasing and we are helpless at times.

A labourer dreams of an opportunity to work abroad and sells even his wife's gold to get a passport and visa. Only to arrive here to a nightmare. It's sad. I've seen labour camps here, it's true that Qatar is doing it's bit to improve the situation, thanks to pressure from human rights watch. But I doubt they will be able to do it for the huge labour force here. Very few will benefit, God save the rest. While Qatar squanders its oil wealth on failed real estate projects and one time events like the world cup, Norway spends its oil wealth on bettering society, improving oil field technology, and investing in renewable at the same time.

When Arabian oil runs out, these people will go back to living like Yemen.

Oh, what a fun irony it will be to watch on TV 80 years from now! Self boycott check off:

McDonalds - shit food and I don't buy it

Coca-Cola - sugar overload unhealthyness in the convenience of a bottle ... no thanks

Adidas - not even my boots

Budweiser - tasteless like water but more unhealthy ... no

Gazprom - who are they

KIA - the car? no

Hyundai - no

Visa - oh crap.  I really hope Visa make a stand against Fifa.  Would be great if we could do a mass complaint write in to Visa. As a swiss I apologize for giving the world sepp blatter. Congratulations! you have just given the 10,000 reason that Qatar should not be permitted to host the World Cup! Slavery is alive and well and it has cloaked itself behind a cunning corporate layer. Will the people boycott the Qatar World Cup even if the sponsors don't? What exactly will Qatar do with all the stadiums they're building after the World Cup is over?  Let them sit and rot away, probably. Fill them with oil money to make a bunch of Scrooge McDuck-style money bins? They can even have events where they sell tickets to see migrant workers being smothered under huge money piles! As long as the major players are expected to earn a lot of money from this event, they will not give a shit about the human rights of the workers. More than likely they will just give some statement AFTER the games along the lines "the treatment of the workers has just been realized and it is very sad, if we knew earlier it would have known earlier we would not have entered the games." So much corruption in FIFA. So little being done about it.

They will get away with it scot-free. Probably won't happen because rich people would lose money I'm pretty sure sponsors are told to bail every year for various reasons. Why do people keep feeding in to this shit? They are too big to fail.  How about boycotting the sponsors sponsoring the cup? There's no telling what can get done when you throw unlimited human suffering at it. They should have never gotten it in the first place. Said this years ago. Also fuck FIFA and Blatter and Co. Beautiful game. UGLY FIFA. Haha I love the wording here

&gt;The indictment also alleges bribes were paid and pocketed in connection with the sponsorship of the Brazilian national soccer team by "a major U.S. sportswear company." Although investigators will not name the company, the indictment says the sportswear firm signed a 10-year, $160 million sponsorship deal with the Brazilian team in 1996, closely matching Nikes clothes, shoes and equipment deal with the team that year.

*Look, we're not saying it's them buuut...* Well they can't, or they risk a lawsuit until proven. Hence the screwy wording.

**edit:** Because it has come up a few times. "the prosecution can't get sued for an indictment". Yes. That is true. However if you re-read the above you will notice that the speculation comes from the Washington Post
&gt;Although investigators will not name the company, the indictment says the sportswear firm signed a 10-year, $160 million sponsorship deal with the Brazilian team in 1996

The indictment doesn't mention Nike by name. AS A RESULT OF THIS - the post can speculate but cannot directly state "This firm is Nike". Even if it is fundamentally blitheringly obvious that it is. They wouldn't be quoting the indictment. So to those saying
&gt;Prosecutors are immune to defamation suits

That is true, but this wasn't a statement by the prosecution - mentioning Nike, this was a statement by the post. so much for "Just do it" It sounds like they did "Just do it" to the tune of $150 million Just bribe it Just take it Just pay it! The last bit of the paragraph after the comma isn't even necessary for one to decipher the entire thing as everyone knows the kitmaker of the Brazilian football team is Nike.

EDIT: I forgot this wasn't /r/soccer I would wager most Americans don't and this is a news outlet targeted at Americans so it makes sense to have it. &gt;most Americans

Or anyone who has no interest in football I have a *very mild* interest in football and I didn't know it. Oh, you're like me. A big soccer fan every 4 years, and maybe even one weekend in June every year. It's usually end of May. exactly Kinda like how I view American football. 

Don't give a shit until that one day in February.  I have almost zero interest in football, but know that Brazil's kit is green and yellow, and has Nike symbol all over it.

Some people just know things, and some won't.  Its useful for the article to be unambiguous.
 What is sport? Baby don't bribe me. Don't bribe me. No more. Can confirm. I'm an American and I had no idea. What's Brazil? 7:1 Never forget. I don't even follow the sport, even during the World Cup, but I sure as hell remember where I was when that game went down. My coworker was keeping me posted on the score and the looks on the faces of the home crowd. I remember texting my friend who was watching it at home when I was at work. I just remember when got in the elevator and reading it was 1-0, then receiving a text that it was 4-0 by the time I got out. Brasil means "ember-like" and is named after [this tree](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caesalpinia_echinata)!

 [A delicious, delicious cookie.](http://www.biscottigentilini.it/english/wp-content/gallery/brasil2/brasil-250g.jpg) i fear you are overestimating "everyone" here, particularly as I suspect many English speakers would not recognize the term "kitmaker" I'm pretty sure that has something to do with Star Trek. Isnt that the builder of that car in nightrider? What the fuck is a kitmaker? uniforms in soccer are called kits. Just look for the  on all the jerseys. Shit is really going down here.

Fifa, Nike, South Africa...

Who's next? Don't forget Australia. They tried to bribe for 2022.  &gt; Australia

As part of my qualifications I had to do an ethics class. There was a heated argument when it came to the topic of doing business in 3rd World countries, or countries where bribery was seen as an everyday part of life.


Would you engage in the local pracitices? Or just lose the business/contract to someone else?


Obviously FIFA is totally different, but it was an interesting debate.
 YOU DECIDE! EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEpic bribe battles of hhhhhhhhHHHHHHIIIIIIIIIIIIISSSSSSSTORYYYYYYYYYYYYYYyyyyyyyyyyy..... U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

VERSUS???????????

EEEEVERRRRYYBODYYYYYYYY

BEGIN! What up, Qatar?  
We're watching you from afar,  
Sporting stars and stripes, I got a couple of gripes.  
I heard youkr workers building days and nights,  
Losing all of their rights, dying in the stadium.  
All I've got to say to ya is when it comes to lawsuits,  
You done fucked with the wrong crew. Yo, I'm here to represent Nike,

I've been hearing that you're trying to indict me. 

How you gonna battle with the powerful "Swoosh?"

We've got Michael Jordan jumping through our hoops.

We've got more lawyers than the Ducks do uniforms,

Be screwin you worse than Jameis did the girls in his dorm.
 
You may have had us on child labor, 

But we're clean now, so we'll do you a favor, 

Step back drop this suit,

We'll send you some very nice Olympic track suits. [Damn](https://gfycat.com/ReflectingMeagerHawk) WHO WON

WHO'S NEXT

YOU DECIDEE

EPIC RAP BATTLE OF BRIBERYYYYYY WOAAAAH Brazil for sure Goldman Sachs and Bank of America.

Nah, just kidding. Don't forget Budweiser.

It doesn't matter if you don't allow drinking in your stadiums under normal circumstances, or why you disallow it... you're going to change your law specifically to allow us to do what we want. Do you think the Feds will ~~swoosh~~ swoop in on a major corporation like Nike and actually arrest anyone?  Or just issue a fine? Maybe a "please stop" Let's not overdo things. More like, "Please give us a share of the loot and its ok." "When all of us are corrupt, none of us are corrupt"
Followed by handshakes all around. &gt;When all of us are corrupt, none of us are corrupt

Can't argue with that logic. A little bit of champagne, a dash of caviar with a pound of coke...More handshakes, a couple eyebrows raising in delight. Like the old days after the war.  I raise my glass, to industry!

All: "To industry!" *we didn't know we couldn't that* "That was good, wasn't it? Because I did know I couldn't do that!" Never realized how much that chappelle quote could apply to corruption... [deleted] This is the Department of Justice, and they're conducting a RICO investigation, which is a criminal enterprise investigation typically used against organized crime. If you're swept up in that net, I don't think there's an option to just pay a fine. 

Don't get this confused with the SEC and mega-banks. There is no revolving door between FIFA/Nike and the DoJ. That said, Nike will probably try and pin everything on a sacrificial lamb who will cooperate for a reduced sentence or something. 

But the DoJ has been conducting this investigation for four years. It may be way too late for Nike to cover its tracks in this manner. All depends on what the DoJ has on them.  It's funny, after reading your post I looked up the Wiki page for the RICO act, which led me to the [Racket (crime) page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Racket_(crime\)).  Someone listed FIFA as an alleged criminal organization along with the American mafia, Mexican mafia, etc  :D
 I seriously thought RICO was a term they made up for Harvey Dent to use against Falcone.   I'm not sure I trust your law blog anymore You're really besmirching the reputation of Bob Loblaw by not knowing anything about law, LawBobLoblaw. It turns out it was the fault of some nefarious lower-middle manager all along. He acted alone and without the knowledge of the higher-ups. He will be thrown under the bus by next Tuesday.  I don't know, this case is so weird. They have been building it since the early 90s. I can't imagine a scenario where people don't go to jail. I may very well be wrong, but I think some high up people are going to pay. Even if they get off, this entire thing is going to cost them big time.  Personally, I think the Feds should just do it. I think Nike is too big to fall... might get a huge fine and their image will take a huge hit. Maybe some sportmen/women will stop endorsing their products but I dont know. We can basically assume corruption for any huge international company. Its hard to get that big by playing by the rules. Nike is not a bank. It is not a major U.S.-based manufacturer (they have only 8,408 U.S. workers, "0%" of their global workforce according to their own site). They make shoes and stuff. It's a major, iconic brand, but so was Pan-Am. The world would go on without Nike. I don't doubt they'll be given a slap on the wrist, but the powers-that-be will need a better excuse than "too big to fail". Nothing is gonna happen to Nike. They maybe payout a 50 mil settlement fine. No names are released while the whole pr ordeal is swept under the rug.  That's a silly thing to say given [recent history](http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/05/20/us-banks-forex-settlement-idUSKBN0O50CQ20150520).  Now, will anyone go to jail? Probably not.  I'm going to o out on a limb and say the FOREX scandal and this are slightly different.  Swoop in? Top level feds and executives of multinational companies probably wine and dine together.  Probably share a roll in the hay too..  Dwight: Roll in the hay, five dollars. 

Angela: No, I meant... [motions you and me]

Dwight: Oh, our contract.

Angela: Mm-Hmm.

Dwight: Yes, why don't we meet at the usual spot. Uh... I've got a half an hour during lunch in-between the historical reenactment of the dunmore farm slaughters and the onion boil.  People have gotten arrested from major corporations for similar behavior before.  It is relatively 'easy' to point out the 'point-person' and therefore charges can be directed towards that individual. More bribes will be paid and that'll be it. Looks like Nike really struck gold with the deal though. Honestly speaking for some countries, corruption is just a business cost.  It's like marketing with a single target. "I wasn't receiving bribes your honor, i was receiving directly marketed material to myself." Don't kid yourself; it's a cost of business in the states too. We just call it lobbying.

[The number of American voters for or against a bill has no impact on whether or not it will pass into law, unless those Americans are in the top 10%](https://youtu.be/5tu32CCA_Ig?t=19) Ah yes... This is why most first world companies with global distribution don't sell direct. We have 'local distributors' independent of us that definitely don't do this either...  And for us here in America, we just find a way to legalize it. Yes, but bribery of foreign officials is a federal crime, in addition to whatever crimes were committed by the foreigners themselves.  Walmart *almost* got in trouble for it a few years ago. Still violates the foreign corrupt practices act  &gt; Honestly speaking for some countries, corruption is just a business cost. 

You mean: in some countries, because at least for the population these countries, it's just stealing. It's not a matter of those countries being corrupt, it's a matter of the relative wealth of nations. If there was a country rich enough to pay congressmen a few billion dollars they could easily bribe the US congress (or any congress).  This just keeps getting better and better. I'm counting days till they royally fuck Blatter as an individual. Me too. And they obviously need to change the rules in FIFA, rules that work, not their useless code of conduct. As much as I think these people are scum for tainting the game, they've exploited a system that was deeply flawed, it has to changed forever to avoid something like this ever happening again.  &gt; I'm counting days till they royally fuck Blatter as an individual.

Honestly, you might be counting for a long time. This guy is literally like a mafia don and he is not stupid. They probably won't get to him, apparently his inner circle aren't even people that are employed by FIFA. Also FIFA is a fucked up organization. Just the Europeans (UEFA) are openly criticizing him. All the other confederations are still in his favor, e.g. there are a ton of corrupt Africans and they are all on the side of Blatter. Blatter was never in favor of Africa to help the people but because it was the best continent to buy votes. Also it's not like Blatter isn't already hated and heavily criticized. But he lives in a totally different world. Ultimately he doesn't care that other people hate him as long as he has the power. Seriously, we should all be happy that he is just the head of a football organization and not a country. He's the type of guy that turn democracies into brutal dictatorships. Why do you think he is friends with Putin? The only thing that surprises me about this whole affair is that it's only 150 million dollars.

EDIT: too many dollars, ironically. It's only $150 million because it is CONCACAF and CONMEBOL corruption so far. There's an article (on Forbes or Fortune, I think) about this.

Basically, after the $40,000 in envelopes incident in T&amp;T a few years back, the feds started poking around and they eventually nailed Chuck fucking Blazer on fraud and tax evasion. He then began providing evidence of CONCACAF corruption which (if I had to guess) eventually put Miami-based Traffic Sports under the microscope which then exposed CONMEBOL due to Traffic's ties to South America.

EDIT: Just wanted to add that so far, the most interesting bit to come out of all this (IMO) is that Chuck fucking Blazer had two apartments in Trump Tower overlooking Central Park -- one for him and one for his cats. &gt; Just wanted to add that so far, the most interesting bit to come out of all this (IMO) is that Chuck fucking Blazer had two apartments in Trump Tower overlooking Central Park -- one for him and one for his cats.

Is he a redditor? If I had the money for two apartments, that is the only way I would own a cat. In-door cat owners have the amazing ability to ignore the omnipresence of cat hair. I don't think I would buy a house from a cat owner, and I love cats. You become desensitized to it. The only time I ever notice it anymore is when someone who doesn't own a cat points it out. 

It's a blessing and a curse. "I did not expect them to be involved at all and they were not at the top of my list of suspects."

    - Absolutely fucking nobody The worst part about it is I was thinking about this when I was buying some new training shoes.  Still bought them because the I am not so sure any of the other shoes on the shelf were any different.  [deleted] &gt; ~~looses~~ loses

By far the most misspelled word of the year. I feel that there will be many more companies which will be found to be entangled in this one way or another. Remember how insistent FIFA were to have beer at the Brazil World Cup - where alcohol had been banned from matches for years?

Yeah, Budweiser is not coming out clean here. Yeah, I'd imagine that Adidas is even deeper in this, considering they are the official sponsor of the World Cup. Corporations are corrupt, government is corrupt even this fking website is corrupt So, red cards for everybody? Foiled 1st edition Charizards for those who pay, the rest get remakes. Nope, lets just buy "each other" gold and listen to some more advertising.  I gotta show you this advertisement I saw the other day! It's so funny/cool/crazy! Did you see that post that reached the front page where that guy was eating at a delicious Big Mac at his friendly McDonald's? Some lady spilled her Starbucks Vente latte on her new Uggs!  Not you,you get a mankey that's been chewed on by a puppy I actually have one of those. Worth anything? It's really based on condition but, you can check SOLD LISTINGS on ebay. Looks like it fluxuates like crazy but, if you're really dedicated to selling it I'd advice having it PSA graded. BUT, if I was you I'd keep that badass card because all the women will want you. I'd know. I don't have one. Also, check out /r/pkmntcg Falls on floor grabbing knee in "excruciating" pain. tssssssss aaahhhhhh.......  
tssssssss aaahhhhhh.......  
tssssssss aaahhhhhh.......  
tssssssss aaahhhhhh.......   *Realizes there is no referee around, gets up perfectly fine and continues to play.* http://i.imgur.com/WHE14qV.gif What tells me YOU aren't corrupt? This big bag of money, now shut the fuck up. Does the bag have a "$" on it? Its not an *$*, it means *hope* where hes from. I *am* corrupt.If anybody feels the need to bribe me for anything just PM me. Seriously, I can be sold for very cheap on a litany of opinions. I will even sell this account in its entirety. I can offer my unborn baby. By my calculations, the trajectory towards consensual marriage should align in 4-5 years. Your baby will be ready soon after. Very soon. 

^^^^Terms^and^conditions^apply Shhhh our glorious leader oh so dedicated to free speech and discussion will hear and be forced to eliminate the accounts of those unjustly slandering Her Majesty.  I thought this was a little strange.



&gt;Ask Reddit thread about leaving reddit over safespaces unsurprisingly removed.

http://np.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/37cfp1/serious_will_you_continue_to_be_a_redditor_if/

&gt;&gt;[Serious] Will you continue to be a Redditor if Reddit CEO Ellen Pao achieved her "Safe-Space" vision for the site?serious replies only Glorious leader Pao will not allow you to leave, her love is too great for you. http://i.imgur.com/rDkpJtJ.jpg So that's what edward snowden is up to these days... Hopefully they get fined 2-3x what they got. 1/3 or 1/4 maybe. They gonna claim a too big to fail bail out clause.  yea because the whole country will collapse without overpriced sports equipment and clothing! Thousands of voting employees would lose their jobs.

EDIT: Fucking hell people, I never said they shouldn't go after Nike...
EDIT 2: I was making a point about the *politics*. TBTF is a slightly inaccurate term to use, but I'm sure they won't get hit with a penalty that is too massive for the sole reason that it would plummet their stock price and potentially crash the business, which hurts a lot more than the business itself (shareholders, creditors, low level employees, etc.). So it's pretty close to TBTF, but not quite the same scenario when compared to the banking sector. Sooo.... $150 million to increase revenue by over $2.1 Billion?
Gotta admit, great investment. Well, John Oliver is going to have fun with this :P I can picture him now, "DON'T FUCK ME ON THIS, NIKE!" I really hope so. He will have the most perfect position to satirise and also comment on this. An Englishman who can communicate the significance of this to a mass American audience.  I'm not ready to rule out LA Gear.  Well at least 7 year olds don't make their overpriced shoes anymore. Damn, what am I going to do with all these children now? "arts and crafts" "carts and rafts" boats and hoes Brazilian youth soccer league This is actually a really good question... What do you think is happening to those children now that they aren't able to work... I would bet their lives aren't better probably significantly worse (It's a horrible thing to say but that's the reality of living in a world with high income inequality) Yup. That was two years ago. Now we use nine year olds Nonsense! Not at the wages they're demanding! Is that actually true?

Who makes them and where? Yes, those kids are at least 18 by now.  Here FIFA, take this pile of money. Just do it.  Nike? Human rights violations? Shady million dollar back room dealings? Never. Can someone explain to me how a company like nike could bribe people? With their whole chain of command and layers upon layers of executives and vps and directors how could they even make that happen?  Think about how much Nike spends on marketing. A gigantic bribe could easily be classified and buried as a marketing expense. 

 Hiring a foreign consulting firm to do market research.

$150mm in 'consulting' charges. 

The firm provides a 100 page bs report on their research, they keep 20mm and pay the rest out as bribes. Fuck. I need to open a corrupt consulting firm. Well it's easy. The top layer of executives decide to bribe FIFA officials and the rest of the chain of command goes along with it. Well no fucking shit, I can't believe people are only starting to realise this. It's gonna be the same in a few years when everyone gets fucked over by TPP after calling me a conspiracy nut for telling them about it. TPP? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trans-Pacific_Partnership its not a conspiracy. These trade agreeements are drafted by corporations for corporate benefit Why is it secret?  The official reason is that people would be pissed off if they knew the content. You mean unofficial.

The official reasons is that it is a business agreement and as such is kept secret until the final document is drafted and made public. Because that's how most negotiations are and should be. It pisses reddit off, but everyone will see the final copy. It won't just be passed, and then go into effect without people knowing what's in it. Right, an agreement like that will change a ton while being drafted. No reason to get people riled up for anything other than the stuff that has the potential to become law.

Being a *partnership* that involves other nations, it likely won't be 100% in the US's favor; it'll be full of trade-offs, upsides, and downsides which means the agreement needs to be taken *in whole*, not in the little parts that are currently being discussed. 

Scrutinizing every provision as it's proposed is a sure way to prevent any amount negotiation from happening. Clandestine, not conspiracy. Twitch plays pokemon
 It's so funny (sad) when you try and tell people about how terrible the TPP is going to be, only to watch as they just shrug it off. Our country and our futures are being sold right from under our feet.  Same here in Europe when you try to talk about the TTIP.  I have the general feeling that most people in Europe despise TTIP, the governments simply don't care. What makes it so terrible?

Edit: By the way, thanks for the responses. I genuinely want to learn. One thing is that corporations could sue governments if they believe the government is doing something that harms their profits. This will be abused.

So if a company wants to use a less than safe additive to its product and the government disagrees the government could be sued.

This agreement is made by corporations (seriously, they are the ones writing it) for corporations.

People can't get enough of the FIFA bribery right now but corporations are bribing government officials to pass the TPP.

http://i.imgur.com/vbGSBsG.gif &gt; One thing is that corporations could sue governments if they believe the government is doing something that harms their profits

You know they can already do that right? So how horrible is it going to be? Very. Imagine your elected government makes a law to protect the environment better. Under TTIP, a foreign oil company can now sue your government for compensation for *expected future losses*.  Sue? Sure, it can do that. But its not going to win. That has always been the case. That's what I thought, is this really anything new?  A foreign oil company can sue your government now.  What's stopping them? They can't cite a law that specifically entitles them to projected losses. eli5 the tpp? I keep hearing about it but have no idea what its all about We lost billions of dollars in cash in Iraq. BILLIONS. Cash was airlifted to Iraq and we lost billions, and never found it. Amd billions of dollars were paid to banks to recover from massive fraud, and not only did nobody go to jail, bu they got multi-million dollar bonuses. But the DOJ has found $150 million in bribes by foreigners in foreign countries tied to soccer. 

The real scandal here isn't soccer, or bribes, or Nike. The real stories are the ones this story is distracting us from.  How about both? Nope. Only one thing can be wrong. If other things exist but aren't quite AS wrong, they're okay and we can't talk about them. Let's be real here. There is an immense distrust of the DoJ right now, along with the rest of the federal government. A government will only do tenacious things if its citizens trust in it to do the right thing. Prosecuting corruption in the FIFA organization is a right thing to do. It builds trust. I'm okay with literally anything a government agency does *honestly and openly* to rebuild the trust of citizens. Think of it as a stepping stone to actually tackling the issues that plague us, rather than just another red herring. But really: is anyone surprised? What would really surprise me would be if those responsible were held accountable. Spaghett! [Coca-Cola, McDonald's, Visa and Adidas. To name a few.](http://www.thedrum.com/news/2015/05/27/creatives-condemn-qatar-world-cup-sponsors-coca-cola-mcdonalds-visa-adidas-pro) VISA hinted today that if FIFA doesn't change, they will re-evaluate sponsorship.

What everyone hopes that means is: If Blatter runs for president and wins tomorrow, you fucking assholes can pound sand. Take em down Legolas! I'm glad this is beginning to be unveiled. This just shows, it's deeper.. Way deeper.  The only person you can be sure that's not corrupt is yourself, and even then you have to be careful. I may get downvoted for this, but an honest question: What is actually illegal that's going on here, aside from the money laundering? Is FIFA not allowed to be bribed for securing media rights if they want to be? Not saying it's right, but honestly, how can it not happen? They're not political officials or police officers.  I'm shocked that some people are shocked by this. Sort of shocking the amount of people attacking this investigation. "It's just a game!"

What? It's an international enterprise generating many billions of dollars a year that's managed to avoid much legal scrutiny despite its documented shadiness until now.

 Some of the most famous athletes ever play the game, the biggest corporations in the world are involved in its sponsorship and promotion, and hundreds of millions of people pay good money and have their national pride wrapped up in what happens on the field. Not to mention the allegations of slavery involved in the building of FIFA venues.

This "game" is a big F'ing deal.

Should the DoJ also be cracking down on corruption on Wall Street? Yes. But that's completely irrelevant. FIFA is a corrupt monopolistic evil organization that deserves this investigation and prosecution. I find it hard to believe that a company whose primary profit base exists as a result of 19th century-style factory labor would behave unethically in such regards. *Well, it looks like they,

(_) /

 ( _)&gt;- 

 (_)

*Just did it* "Just do it."  
- Every corrupt official ever. Brazil: Welcome to our world! since the FIFA m.o. is to do business with the highest ~~bidder~~ briber, it stands to reason that *every* sponsor is as suspected a player as Nike. Don't hate the player, hate the game. FIFA was corrupt, that means they received money from many many sources. Governments, companies, individuals. Why single out Nike? I imagine bribery was a cost incurred by everyone who wanted to deal with FIFA. Might I point out that this still would be far from the worst thing Nike has ever done.  [deleted] [deleted] Its almost like a company who utilized child labor isn't trustworthy. just bribe it. "Surprise: Child-slave-labor-using manufacturer not as ethical as public initially thought" Wow, you're telling me the company that used child labor is doing other corrupt things? Who would've ever guessed! Given this, Nike's close connections to Eugene and the sketchiness of the [awarding of the 2021 World Track and Field Championships](http://www.iaaf.org/news/PressRelease/eugene-awarded-2021-iaaf-world-championships) to Eugene without bidding, I'm feeling nervous about the IAAF.

edit: link Nike started in Oregon. Of course they want track championships there.  Eugene, Oregon is the mecca of track and field  Yeah, Nike has done some really sketchy things in Track &amp; Field due to their influence (re:Alberto Salazar and the Nike Oregon Project), but having the Championships in Eugene is something everyone who follows T&amp;F wanted. and Hayward field is one of the best Track and &amp; Field stadium and atmospheres in the world. 

http://media.kval.com/images/120624-Hayward-660.jpg beautiful Eugene has long been a Mecca, hence how and why Nike was born out of that area To be fair, a company can do above-the-table stuff to make a site more likely to be selected, like building the facilities out-of-pocket that the event would require. For something like Track and Field, a company like Nike could easily cough up the money to make it happen. There is nothing wrong with having the track championships in the track capital of the world. Link is 404 Who the hell is the Qatar PR person? They might as well change their national slogan to "Qatar we don't give a fuck." They truly don't care, at the end of the day they know people will watch the world cup  This is the sad part. People will care more about their sports than about what went on during the construction phase.  Go to any bar/pub with sports fans and tell them about the plight of the workers, see what kind of responses you get.  Yeah I know. That's the sad part.  Fun fact: The Qatar death numbers we hear are complete bullshit, made up to elicit an emotional response from places like Reddit where nobody looks up the facts.

The "Already 400 workers have died" and "4000 workers are going to die" bullshit is based on extrapolating the total number of Indian/Nepali workers who have died in Qatar since 2010. Not Indian/Nepali workers who have died on the job, just workers who have died. Period.

You can follow the sources yourself and see the causes of these deaths:

http://m.thehimalayantimes.com/fullNews.php?headline=About+577+deaths+reported+in+last+nine+months+&amp;NewsID=377073#.VV9o3p3F9BY

&gt;The Foreign Employment Promotion Board has recorded 61 suicide cases in the period, while the number was 54 in the same period last year. Data shows that suicide is the third major cause of death among migrant workers after cardiac arrest  death while sleeping  and road accidents. *
And more 

&gt;191 Nepalese workers died in 2013 working in Qatar compared with 169 in 2012 based on Nepal Government figures. 400 Nepalese workers have died since 2010 when Qatar won the right to host the World Cup.

[That figure of 400 is from an article in the Guardian.](http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/feb/16/qatar-world-cup-400-deaths-nepalese)

[Which isn't just a misleading figure, it was totally made up and the agency they quoted as source said that they had no idea of any report and couldn't understand why the Guardian didn't bother to contact them](http://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/36yxm6/til_that_900_workers_have_died_in_their_mission/crigntp)

&gt;191 Nepalese workers died in 2013 working in Qatar compared with 169 in 2012 based on Nepal Government figures

&gt;218 Indian nationals died in 2013 working in Qatar according to figures from the Indian Embassy in Qatar. 237 workers died in 2012 and 239 in 2011

These figures include ALL workers in EVERY field and EVERY cause of death. If a guy caught his wife in bed with a person from Nepal and shot him then they are in these figures. If they fell down the stairs outside Starbucks or jumped off a cliff or whatever they are in these figures. These aren't people working purely in the construction industry, it's every person of that nationality in all fields.

Also, [there's 550,000 Indians and 400,000 Nepal immigrants in Qatar](http://www.bqdoha.com/2013/12/population-qatar)

So 191/4 for Nepal gives a death rate of 47.75 per 100,000.

218/5.5 for Indians gives a death rate of 39 per 100,000.

The [death rate of Mexicans per 100,000 in the United States in 2013 was 259 per 100,000](http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/mexican-health.htm)

I've said elsewhere there is so much absolute bullshit going around here and almost nobody is checking into it so it is getting repeated over and over and over and then is becoming unchallengeabe. This doesn't change the fact that employers have control over worker's passports and legal documents, effectively making them slave labor. There have been countless concerns expressed worldwide about working conditions, living quarters, freedom, availability for medical care and it's all just a false illusion?  Doesn't the high suicide rate seem to support it?  How do you explain such a high suicide rate? The greatest irony is those people watching it tend to be from the same or slightly higher socioeconomic background.  Yeah because they are not educated on what goes on behind the scene.  I honestly don't think it would matter in many, if not most, cases.  That's bullshit. We've filled the front page with news on the conditions, and you betcha we'll fill it again with news of the world cup - which most of us will be watching. Sadly, most of us doesn't mean most of the people that watch the World Cup will know about it.  I'm not sure about the developing countries that are super into football, but I'd bet that the majority of the Europeans, who will watch it, will know about it.

If you're into football, you definitely will have heard about it, as a lot of the current football-related news is about the fuck-up that is Qatar.

If you're not that much of a fan, you probably still would've heard about it, as there have been high-profile news stories for quite some time now and it's something that will likely be brought up as a small-talk topic as we're getting closer to the cup.

You'd really have to make an effort to not hear about it in order to have no knowledge of it by the time the games kick off. Honestly this far transcends sports, I've seen it addressed several times on the national news here in The Netherlands. Yeah they are. They throw a fuss before but once the show starts they don't care anymore.  I'm a die hard football fan. I'm german, it's a religion here. I won't watch one second of this world cup. I know a lot of people who think the same. Either some other country gets the event, or the 2022 world cup simply won't exist. What needs to happen is that some of the teams that qualify refuse to participate. New FIFA rule: Each player from the qualified teams that refuse to participate will be flogged 500 lashes. The USA needs to be the first to drop out of this World Cup honestly. Sure, we are not very good. But our diplomatic influence would lead to a few more countries dropping out.  As a Dutch person that will not watch, I think we should protest our governments and the players. We shouldn't even send soccer teams to these countries. FIFA should be dissolved and replaced by an organization that is about the spirit of the game (not just the money), and that has the term "human decency" in its vocabulary.
 Or maybe FIFA could just not award World Cup hosting to countries that have abysmal human rights records and virtually enslave and beat foreign workers.

Pyongyang 2026!!!!!!!!!! Same here. I'm German too. Will be a painful miss for me but I won't watch it if it takes place in Qatar  I hope that a petition is done for the England national team (assuming they make it) to not attend. Sure we'll do absolutely fuck all there, but I dont want my nation represented at the fuckup that is qatar 2022. This isn't a comment specifically about you.  It's more of a general comment.  But barring some sort of major catastrophe, I suspect most people saying now that they won't watch it will want to watch it seven years from now. As a common western football fan, I will not watch a second of it either.  And I will harshly criticize ESPN if it devotes a single moment of its air time to this WC game play rather than the underlying human rights issues. &gt; Either some other country gets the event, or the 2022 world cup simply won't exist.

Wouldn't the best solution be that guest workers in Qatar get humane working conditions? Moving the cup doesn't really solve the fundamental problem. That's the only way to understand their position so far, they really don't give 2 fucks.  As long as they keep the games and the sponsors they'll get away with it too, probably figuring that the only lasting memories will be about the actual event and not how it came together.   &gt; probably figuring that the only lasting memories will be about the actual event and not how it came together.

Same shit that happened last year. Boycott the Qatar World Cup!! Sooo, how about in 2020, several subs get started boycotting the World Cup in Qatar. Then as the time approaches larger efforts begin to take place to spread the word of the boycott. That way even though many will still watch the world cup, far less will. 

On second thought, let's just all agree to Boycott Fifa and all their corporate partners?!?

Oh Wait, no one will do that no matter how terrible Fifa is or how terrible Qatar treats workers because "Football and Sports and Things!! YAY EXPLOITATION!!!" It's business as usual for them. UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Gulf Arabs in general treat southeast asian migrant workers as sub-human. 

The standard practice by these despicable people is to lure the desperate and poor from India, Indonesia, Philippines etc with the promise of work. They arrive and have their passports taken by the employer. That right there is pretty much enslaving them. They can't leave without that passport. 

Add to that they are paid a fraction of what they were promised. They are forbidden from contacting their families or anyone else and they are forced to live in poor conditions. 

A quick google comes up with all manner of articles and video evidence of Gulf Arabs beating and torturing foreign workers. I am aware of generalising here, but goddamn, you have to ask yourself if it appears to be so widespread...what sort of culture is this that permits and seems to encourage this behaviour? I can't help but think its a disgusting place filled with disgusting people. I will never set foot in that place as long as I have a choice.  Exactly. I'm ethnically arab and gulf states/people disgust me. They have a society built on slavery, disregard for human rights and the general sentiment that they are above all. They will crash and burn soon. &gt;  the general sentiment that they are above all. 

This is a feeling I get too.  The arab supremacy is palpable when you speak to them about world matters or religion.  In my mind, this lack of humility is exceedingly misplaced. These words come right from my heart, I couldn't agree more. If they would come to pick me up with a private jet and best seats in the whole stadium, I wouldn't give a shit (although I love football). I will never ever set foot in those bastard countries. I don't care about the shitty highest building on earth ore whatever, as long as it's build on the shoulders and with blood of these poor people. Westerners get their passport taken from them too in a lot of cases. ......... and it's not just the passport that gets you over the border. Your employer must gain you an exit visa. Passport alone won't work. They'll just send you away at the airport/border. True. [This sad tale of a Norwegian woman who was raped and had her passport confiscated springs to mind.](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/middleeast/dubai/10195552/Norwegian-rape-case-woman-allowed-to-leave-Dubai.html)

She was raped and they imprisoned her for extramarital sex...these people think that is ok. What a bunch of hideous, religious fascists. The fact that we are taking the world cup there is a disgrace.  "Qatar, where the world cup will be built by forced labor no matter what!" "Qatar, hey at least we aren't ISIS." When you have that much oil money, you know you don't have to give a fuck, you can buy your way out of anything. Can't wait for that shithole to crumble one day. It's more like..Almost no one even knows who the people are. You just hear "Qatar" and "FIFA." Whoever "they" are don't need to buy their way out of anything. They just need to continue business as usual as the peanut gallery boos, but most will eventually enjoy the theatrics at the end anyway. They give a fuck, it's just that the Anglosphere don't want to hear their objections.  Most of the statistics you hear aren't just misleading, they are flat out made up.  Nobody cares though.

Let's just take a single look at this story without immediately thinking how terrible all those Arab Sheikhs are.

&gt;After the earthquake of 25 April, **we requested all companies in Qatar to give their Nepalese workers special leave and pay for their air fare home**. While workers in some sectors of the economy have been given this, **those on World Cup construction sites are not being allowed to leave because of the pressure to complete projects on time**.

They asked the companies building the World Cup stadiums to give their workers unscheduled time off and pay for their airfare.  Not the Qatari Government mind, the actual companies building the stadiums.

So who are the companies building the stadiums?  Well there are only one at the moment.

[The Al Rayyan Stadium is being deconstructed by a new joint venture between Manco and a British firm called the Buckingham Group](http://www.constructionweekonline.com/article-30476-deconstruction-works-start-at-al-rayyan-stadium/)

[The Al-Wakrah stadium is currently underdevelopment and whilst HBK Contracting carried out the groundworks, that phase has finished and I can't seem to find who is contracted for phase 3 though an Indian company called Larsen &amp; Toubro are doing lots of work in the area](http://www.bigprojectme.com/news/ground-works-begin-on-al-wakrah-stadium/)

These are the people who wouldn't give the time off.  And also ask whether your employer is giving time off and a free plane ticket to Nepal to any affected parties.

[Yesterday I showed that the "death figures" were a total fabrication.  Almost every single story on here that comes out about Qatar is fucking bollocks and nobody else can seemingly be arsed to look into them](http://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/36yxm6/til_that_900_workers_have_died_in_their_mission/crigntp)

Here's the logos for the Buckingham Group and L&amp;T.  I'm sure they'll make it right onto the front page

http://www.roundhay-ecl.com/images/logo_BuckinghamGroup.gif

http://stockholics.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/11/1325589186-L-and-T.jpg In the article the labour minister said that Nepal offered to pay for airfares if the company wouldn't, but they were refused the time off. 

My employer wouldn't pay the airfare, but bereavement leave is a given, regardless of how busy any project was.  http://m.hrw.org/world-report/2014/country-chapters/qatar  True, but you forgot the part where the government grants people certain rights, and where companies have to comply even if they don't want to. You know, stuff like a day or two off for things like this. Qatar: as long as we can bribe it, we don't give a fuck! My university has a sister college over there. There was a sister program to mine, even.

I never once considered going, even a little bit. Fuck that place, I'm not setting foot in there without full citizenship, and I'm not wasting my time trying to get that. The Emirates has a big problem with education of their youth  because their welfare for the citizens is so good. Free house, car , money . People dont bother studying anymore so they have introduced a program where they will send you to any university in the world and pay for it!  Free cars and houses... Wtf how rich are they?  Are you saying  every citizen will get a free car and housing?  In the UAE there are around 1.4 million locals out of a total population of 9 million or so. The government can absolutely afford the best kind of welfare for the citizens--free house, education, monthly stipend (even before you turn 18). All this on top of the tax-free income (which expats get too), free healthcare from very luxurious hospitals, subsidised fuel and government-funded pension.

Source:lived in the UAE for a decade.

Edit: typo. It's not always enough to buy a complete house but there is substantial assistance. They have grants for everything, everyone gets a substantial amount of money (about $20,000) just for getting married for example.

They are absolutely filthy rich when you consider that the locals have basically all the money and they are only a tiny fraction of the population, most of whom are very poor foreign workers. I remember staying in the YHA-affiliated youth hostel in Sharjah (conservative emirate just north of Dubai, no alcohol) and the guy running it had a Bentley, a Merc and a boat in the driveway.

The hostel was empty and our room (of course I'm married to this girl, honest) was something like $10, it clearly wasn't in any way a money making venture but rather that the government decided that Sharjah *should* have an official youth hostel and put this already connected filthy rich individual in charge of it as "something to do".

Qatar is the richest country in the world with a GDP/capita (PPP) of $143,427. The figure for the US is $54,597, for the UK $39,511, for Japan it's $37,390.

But when you consider than 92% of the population of Qatar is poor temporary foreign workers and that the 8% of locals have almost all of the money, you could probably multiply that figure of $143,427 by 10 for the average Qatari, in which case you are looking at basically the *average* in that country for a local being a multi millionaire with an annual GDP/capita over 1 million dollars. They are simply *insanely* rich.  Shocking. Honestly,  FIFA is proving with each and every human rights violation how corrupt they truly are.  You're right about FIFA proving how corrupt they are, but after what Qatar has been doing for the past few years, this is hardly shocking. I know. It's terrible that that is the case.  And it's not unique to the region either... This has been going on for quite awhile in UAE, Kuwait, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, etc. It's amazing what you can get away with while having so much wealth.  It's Amazing he can get away saying Jordan twice lol By the way, did he mention Jordan? and his friend Chad I was wondering if there was a specific reason to state Jordan twice, as if it were the worst of those places...like a comedic approach. he has no class [deleted] Seems like exactly what it buys. But class doesn't stop people from being horrible.  Yeah 'class' and 'taste' is definitely what I think of when I look at Dubai... "You know when an arsehole wins the lottery and he spends all his money on a Champaign ice sculpture of his own scrotum and a pack of Filipino slave boys to hold it up? Well if that person was a city it would be Dubai." - Yahtzee Croshaw  You need the sarcasm tag - these nouveau Arab riche slavers don't understand sarcasm unless one of their slaves explains it to them.  Is this Rolls not gold enough for you? [deleted] I think you misunderstood what he meant by class, as in a class system. Or at least that's what I understood from his post. I think you're both actually saying the same thing from different ends- like Lord Grantham of Downtown Abbey has his entire state because of title and a class system, but the reason he comes off as classy as hell rather than tacky like a rich dick is because he treats everyone- his butler, cook, local villagers-- as worthy of respect and human dignity.  It's self serving, but it kind of gives the ruling classes a bit more legitimacy. To be fair, from what I've seen and heard, Jordan has been trying to fix up some of their issues.

But in general...yeah, those countries not really somewhere I would want to do construction or anything of that nature. Jordan is indeed bad. But not on the same level as the gulf countries For the last time, the Hitler mustache thing was just a spur of the moment and it's ok because he is black! King Abdullah of Jordan is actually a very interesting guy once you read up on him.  His father was the same. Very well spent hour reading up on the Jordanian royal family. Not that the were perfect. Light years ahead of their neighbors though. It's amazing how reasonable a middle eastern country can be when they aren't swimming in oil. There is a reason the former king was asked to speak at the former prime minister of Israels funeral. Hold up. You're not wrong about Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, but Jordan (, Jordan,) and the UAE are far from on the same level here. I wouldn't say Jordan as much as the other gulf states, we had a maid from srilanka and she even had her own apartment and all she had to do was do dishes and clean every now and then, she didn't even know a lick of Arabic when she first got to us and we taught her enough to talk with people and everything, hell we took her with us on trips, it was like a paid vacation. Well, you list Jordan twice and it isn't even a gulf state (the states responsible for most of these abuses). Also do you have any evidence of Jordan being involved in any migrant worker abuses (I'll assume not)? Please don't compare the UAE with Qatar. I work in the UAE and we paid to send a number of our staff home to support families in the quake and raised money from everyone to also donate and support aid. Don't use the same brush on all as there are some great people here who donate and help a lot. I'm not defending, but let's be clear of the request. 


"Tek Bahadur Gurung, Nepals labour minister, said: After the earthquake of 25 April, we requested all companies in Qatar to give their Nepalese workers special leave and pay for their air fare home."

That's a bit of a big ask.  And Qatar didn't give enough fucks to say "let's compromise." Yeah, would cost way too much for poor old Qatar. Not when they're paying the workers jack shit and the country has billions of dollars anyway. 900 migrant workers have died building the stadiums, hotels and venues for Qatar's precious fucking wold cup. Thousands more are expected to die before their necropolis masquerading as a resort is finished. But as horrifying as that is, the wost part is that the FIFA executive committee is perfectly comfortable with building their 2022 world cup over the corpses of the slaves who died building it.    Even worse, it is known that these buildings are virtually worthless after the World Cup. The plan is to dismantle most of the stadiums and send them to developing countries. Two will remain to serve Qatar's domestic league. The other infrastructure (e.g. roads, metro system, accommodation, etc.) will remain to meet future population growth in the country. future non-citizen growth to be specific Are they going to ship the stadiums with the coffins? I don't know where you got your numbers, but they're wrong.

It's closer to 1400 people at the moment, expected to top out close to 4000 by the time a game is actually played.

Fuck Qatar.  Fuck FIFA.  And Fuck Qatar a second time. 

The 900 number and 1400 you quoted was at the time of March, last year... yeah, it's gotten worse.  This is so sickening, this is the equivalent of everyone I've ever met in my entire life dying at once.  yet for every keyboard activist saying fuck FIFA, fuck qatar, fuck blah blah.... 99% of them will still watch the world cup.

 Yup. But does that mean they should keep quiet about it? How much influence does the average person have over FIFA? Bribery and corruption within FIFA gave the game to Qatar in the first place, it's not like it was from popular consensus.  &gt; It's closer to 1400 people at the moment

Source

EDIT:  Asks for source, downvoted.  This is exactly why this issue is bullshit. For the record, I already know that they have no source.  They mixed up a number of 1200 from the [ITUC Special Report](http://www.ituc-csi.org/ituc-special-report-the-case?lang=en).

This number is also bullshit.

&gt;191 Nepalese workers died in 2013 working in Qatar compared
with 169 in 2012 based on Nepal Government figures. 400 Nepalese workers have died since 2010 when Qatar won the right to host the World Cup.

[That figure of 400 is from an article in the Guardian](http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/feb/16/qatar-world-cup-400-deaths-nepalese).  

[Which isn't just a misleading figure, it was totally made up and the agency they quoted as source said that they had no idea of any report and couldn't understand why the Guardian didn't bother to contact them](http://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/36yxm6/til_that_900_workers_have_died_in_their_mission/crigntp)

&gt;191 Nepalese workers died in 2013 working in Qatar compared
with 169 in 2012 based on Nepal Government figures

&gt;218 Indian nationals died in 2013 working in Qatar according
to figures from the Indian Embassy in Qatar. 237 workers died
in 2012 and 239 in 2011

These ARE correct figures but they haven't given a crucial piece of information - these figures include ALL workers in EVERY field and EVERY cause of death.  If a guy caught his wife in bed with a person from Nepal and shot him then they are in these figures.  If they fell down the stairs outside Starbucks or jumped off a cliff or whatever they are in these figures.  These aren't people working purely in the construction industry, it's every person of that nationality in all fields.

Also, [there's 550,000 Indians and 400,000 Nepal immigrants in Qatar](http://www.bqdoha.com/2013/12/population-qatar)

So 191/4 for Nepal gives a death rate of 47.75 per 100,000.

218/5.5 for Indians gives a death rate of 39 per 100,000.

[The death rate of Mexicans per 100,000 in the United States in 2013 was 259 per 100,000](http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/mexican-health.htm)

I've said elsewhere there is so much absolute bullshit going around here and almost nobody is checking into it so it is getting repeated over and over and over and then is becoming unchallengeabe. Sure, but you don't have to die to be a slave. Even if no one died, the working conditions and wages are still pathetic. Along with the practice of luring these migrants in and then withholding their passports from them so they can't return home after they find out they would have been better off staying there in the first place. This.  I'm not even concerned nearly as much as arguing over death statistics as I am the treatment of these people.

I've seen videos of the worker slums.  That's not a statistic you can fudge.  Is it not a fact they're confiscating visas and passports and essentially using slavery?  FIFA and Qatar still suck and don't seem to care about the human rights violations they're committing. &gt;  These aren't people working purely in the construction industry, it's every person of that nationality in all fields.

Almost all Nepalis in Qatar are in construction, though. Some are janitors, and a few may be drivers, though I never met a Nepali driver there. That's about it. There was one Nepali teacher, but he got deported.

Occupations are strongly segregated by nationality in Qatar.

As for comparing death rates to a whole population's death rates, that's misleading since it's generally young, relatively healthy people who get sent to Qatar. 

&gt;As for comparing death rates to a whole population's death rates, that's misleading since it's generally young, relatively healthy people who get sent to Qatar.

So limit the comparison so you are comparing like with like. The workplace related death rate among Nepalese in Qatar is 9.7. In the construction sector in the EU it is 13. In the US it is 13.3. In India, the overall workplace related death rate is around 17, if construction is more dangerous by the same ratio as in the West it should be around 45.

The average age of a Qatari foreign worker is 32-34. The off site death rate from the much cited heart disease among Nepalese in Qatar is 21. The South Asian average (where they come from) for 30-44 year olds is 35. The Middle Eastern average for that age group is 45.

No matter what stat you take, workplace related death rate, the oft cited heart attacks, the overall working age death rate, when you look at the actual *rate* it is nothing except perfectly normal. In fact it is usually substantially lower than the places these workers come from.

You will *never* see a **rate** quoted in any of these articles about "thousands of deaths", they are always quoting raw numbers in a sensationalist way. There's a reason for that, and it's the the death *rate* is perfectly normal. 

There are up to **2 million** foreign workers in Qatar. Over a period of five years, it is not at all surprising that "thousands" of people die out of a population of 2 million. The Indian government has repeatedly said that the death rate is normal and expected given the size of the community there, but unsurprisingly this is never picked up by the Western media.

www.thehindu.com/news/international/indian-embassy-in-qatar-says-most-indian-deaths-due-to-natural-causes/article5713681.ece Huh, your numbers are right. (I'd quibble that your "up to 2 million" is misleading, given that Indians and Nepalis are less than half of the population, but that's not really relevant.)

Construction safety there is definitely a lot more lax than in the West, but my main concern for workers' health (abused housemaids aside) was not on-the-job construction accidents but rather the number of cardiac arrests/heart attacks among Nepalese in particular. Do you have an explanation for that? I've never seen anything indicating that it's a huge problem for 30-year-olds in Nepal. As I said in my post, there is nothing to suggest that there is anything particularly unusual about the cardiac issues, the rate of deaths from heart disease in Qatar along Nepalese is 21 while for 30-44 year olds in South Asia (where they are from) it is 35 and in the Middle East 45.

I don't think "up to 2 million" is misleading as the headline numbers quoted are usually deaths from ALL foreign workers, not just Indians or Nepalese. If a number specifies Indian or Nepalese specifically I would refer to the number of them (which is around 400,000 for Nepalese IIRC).  Too bad it won't change anything. The Qatar World Cup with go on, and no country will boycott it, and in a few years it will be a memory of "something that happened," and FIFA will continue.  The question arising here, from the apparent apathy from FIFA, is how much money has the Qatar government paid to be allowed to do this?

If the government and FIFA give two flying fucks, I think its time athletes stand up and refuse to participate in the games. I don't think there would be any pride winning or even setting foot in a stadium built at the expense of another human being. It's easy to call for boycotts when it doesn't mean a significant change in your behaviour. The world cup is the top event for soccer players, it's unlikely any of them will do anything.


What needs to happen is for people to put pressure on their governments to stop supporting this. Stop sending dignatarias. Stop funding any organisation that works with FIFA.  &gt; I think its time athletes stand up and refuse to participate in the games. 

Besides the fact that the best players today won't be going to the world cup in 7 years, Qatar have their nails deep in the football world. Why would you think FIFA gives a fuck? They know billiions of people will watch the World Cup anyway, they have zero incentive to change the way they operate. I actually think Qatar **will not** host 2022, more pressure is building every day on FIFA, sponsors etc. I'd love for Japan or Australia to get it.  I don't think they'll host it either. 2022 is a long ways away and there is still plenty of time for mass amounts of uproar As long as the sponsors are getting their share, nothing will happen.  You know for something like this Anonymous could do a great job.

All they would've to do would be to hack the sponsors sides and place the graphics made on reddit on their pages.

The media will love to report about this, too. Then just some extra activists who go around and replace their advertisement with those graphics and this should show them. :) Anonymous is not going to change the location of the World Cup. The World Cup will be in Qatar no matter what happens. This happens with every huge event in a non-Western country. South Africa was fucking up, Russia was fucking up, Brazil was fucking up. Nothing changed. There is so much money and influence at play that most of us cannot even grasp it. Saying Anonymous could have any effect at all on something like this is a total joke. They could hinder ISIS more than they could do anything about the World Cup. &gt;South Africa was fucking up, Russia was fucking up, Brazil was fucking up. 

Yes, but I think slavery is different. Hopefully I'm not the only person who feels that way. Every country does bad things, but this seems like a good place to draw the line.  &gt;  There is so much money and influence at play that most of us cannot even grasp it.

Much of this money comes from the sponsors, if the sponsors see that the world cup gives them more bad publicity then good, they will think twice about giving FIFA money for it. Also it increases the awareness of the masses about the abuse in Quatar, further increaing the pressure on the politicians and sport clubs participating in the event.

And also I mentioned the media, which will have more influence on then anonymous, Anonymous should be more like a "click bait" for the media. The media then thinks they could make money with reporting this shit and a lot of magazines, especially those which are bad, will have an article about it. In those article will most of the time the reason for why it was done mentioned. Those who read it will all be aware of what is happening there, though most probably don't care, but when they think about the product they might remember this event each time. "oh look there is cola, you know what I read in the newspaper this morning?" The sponsors won't like this bad publicity, thus they will make pressure on FIFA. FIFA will get pressure from their money and their influential people at once.

It may not stop the event in the long run, but it will probably make the event less big, because some may and will very likely boycott the event. (Though I fear that my country will participate, Germans are soccer freaks)

And there is the chance that the event really ends up getting stopped. 1 Event in protest may not have a lot of impact, but like several drops of water can grind down stone, so can several small events stop a big event. It may start with bad publicity and more public awareness of what is happening, after a year it might become to one participant boycotting, then another follows, and another and then the event doesn't happen.

Though I hope we are able to atleast have enough of an impact to stop FIFA from trying something like this again. And I hope that they show a message before every game. Just one number, the number of all those people who died for us to watch this game. And at the end of each game or during the break a list of those names. Or better, at the bottom of the screen a list of those names. So that all people who watch the games will be aware of how many people died, just for them to sit and watch a ~~stupid~~ fucking game.

edit: changed a word cause i used the wrong one...

edit2: Just to clarify, I don't think soccer is stupid or anything, I wanted to emphasize that it is just a game, and I used stupid instead of fucking which would've represented what I wanted to say... Clock is ticking. And with every minute that passes that Qatar builds more and more stadiums, it's going to be more difficult to pull the rug out from under them. I dunno if Qatar could sue FIFA for damages or something. As much as germany would be ready to host it within 3 months warning, I think the host should be know about 3 years in advance - anything less than that and somebody is getting fucked over  &gt;more pressure is building every day on FIFA

Real world pressure  reddit circlejerking

 Also the only way FIFA would give the world cup to another country would be if that country bribed them way more than Qatar did. And looking at what a horrible choice that was, that must have been a shitload of money.

What do they have to fear anyway? People not watching the World Cup? Not gonna happen. They could have puppy-and-kitten-stomping-events during halftime and people would only protest by looking at their phones while that happens. I agree with you. Now I know I am in the minority, hell being a Nepalese I know the entire fucking country is a minority but fuck me if qatar do host the world cup I ain't watching SHIT! I know some cunts who even said "throughout history people have died to create spectacular events and monuments", well fuck how about you kill yourselves instead of killing my people you fucks! The uproar is disproportionate on reddit. It gets drowned out quite a bit in the real world.  Japan co-hosted it in 2002. Australia also tried to bribe FIFA for the World Cup, so they're out. The US came in second and is always ready, so it would be the obvious choice. I've heard talk of the US and Canada co-hosting, which would be cool. Dude at this point the bribing doesn't even look that bad, just accept bribes from countries who aren't going to use slave labor. the bribing which is probably continuous is probably whats keeping Qatar as the host. The issue isn't bribing FIFA. It's being unlucky and having your bribes to FIFA make the news. And when I say unlucky, I don't mean in terms of "oh damn, it leaked", but in terms of "well shit, someone leaked it because they had an agenda and didn't want us to host it". Australia gave the least in bribes. That is why Australia was thrown under the bus. Pathetic effort IMO  Yeah, the truth is Australia *didn't bribe enough*. &gt;Australia also tried to bribe FIFA for the World Cup

I'll let you in on a little secret. All the countries up for getting the cup bribe FIFA, though they don't do it blatantly. Qatar just happened to bribe the most this time. The UK should do it. It was 40 years ago (1966) that we last hosted the world cup, so its time. We would put on a rocking event for you all, without killing people. 

Of course i have some bias, but on paper we are ready to go and have it all in place. Not that long ago we executed the Olympics with no major issues at all. We have premiership football stadiums up and down the country that host massive games for Manchester united, Chelsea, Liverpool. 

We also have the hotels, the culture (big ben, stone henge!), and lots more for visitors to enjoy. We are also very beautiful in the summer with lots of green rural hills (the shires) instead of desert dust getting in your eyes and everywhere else. We should have rekt Qatars bid, but we won't bribe fifa, so Shit Blader and his cunties gave it to Qatar. 

[We would also make a catchy tune about it](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RJqimlFcJsM) Don't wanna make you feel old but it's closer to 50 years. dam, you're right, it is.  Pretty much what I was thinking. London once took on the Olympic games at the last minute, the world cup would be smaller and easier to manage Australia's bribes weren't to FIFA they were to the various football confederations who voted for the World Cup, the bribes was stuff like building stadiums in their countries and stuff. Problem is that it's much easier just to give a dude a bag of cash instead. &gt; Australia also tried to bribe FIFA for the World Cup, so they're out. 

Isn't that exactly what Qatar did? If they didn't bribe their way in, the decision to give it to Qatar makes absolutely no fucking sense at all. I like your optimism, even though I don't agree. You'd think it's not that hard to make a point of *not* giving World Cups to third world countries. Like, never. They have completely other priorities before dumping countless millions into a world cup, while in the meantime in Western countries all facilities are right there, ready to go at a moment's notice. 

Still, for what we all want to even have the slightest chance, Blatter has to die. I mean, he'll stay in office until his death, I'm quite sure, but he's 79 years old. As long as he's in charge, nothing will have any chance of changing.  It's probably going to be the US honestly.  Should have won anyways if not for the bribes.   yeah, the US has the infrastructure in place already. We fucking love massive stadiums And we fill them on a regular basis And is fast growing sport that hasn't reached its potential, FIFA needs to cash in on a country where soccer is a relatively new sport. Most Western countries have the infrastructure in place for these things. Honestly, the World Cup should never go to places where there isn't current infrastructure in place because it creates issues like Qatar  Because they wouldn't come back to slavery.  They can leave any time they want! (provided we give them their passports back and the government gives them a departure visa and they are somehow able to afford the price of the flight) It's kind of amazing that they are allowed to steal the workers passports. The world is so awful.  I was in Nepal throughout the first few weeks of this earthquake ordeal. I travelled amidst demolished village towns, met people who had lost everything, I was in Kathmandu for the second major earthquake and the days afterwards, but one of the most tragic scenes I saw in my time there was at the airport before flying to Istanbul. My flight had a stopover in UAE, so perhaps close to 70 young Nepali men were standing in check-in with me, about to get on a flight to work abroad. They all held a contract and passport in their hands the whole time - as if the check-in attendant would want to see their contract (clearly unfamiliar to travel and almost certainly their first time on a plane). Many were wearing their best clothing (like a clean brandname shirt or sweater. One guy was wearing faded denim pants and equally faded denim collared shirt, with a blazer and sunglasses - seriously, like poverty's Sunday best). Some people were trying to joke around, but they were mostly quiet and a serious nervousness was incredibly palpable. Nepal is a country where only about 15% of the population have internet access, and even then, english literacy is probably even lower, so I was very sceptical how educated these poor young boys were about the situation they were heading into. Couple that with the fact that they are leaving their country with its infrastructure and economy fucked, where if they go or stay they're kinda damned if they do and damned if they don't. Not to mention, it's almost certain that they have loved ones in a desperate situation at home who are dependent on the income they hope to make abroad.

I would have taken a picture, but I didn't want to contribute to making their experience even more difficult or awkward for them. &gt;Couple that with the fact that they are leaving their country with its infrastructure and economy fucked, where if they go or stay they're kinda damned if they do and damned if they don't. Not to mention, it's almost certain that they have loved ones in a desperate situation at home who are dependent on the income they hope to make abroad.

I'm not Nepali, but what you've said is true. I am fucked either way so I choose to do something instead of staying at my country. The hope atleast makes me sleepbat night. Actually, I'd prefer to get perpetually fucked here than go back to my country.
 This is what the entirety of the thread doesn't understand, that the situation back home for these workers is so much worse and that relatively, they are living a first world life. 25% of their income goes back to help loved ones. I'd rather put up with conditions others call abuse as long as those conditions are significantly better.

The most ridiculous thing of all is this notion from these users that somehow they know how to solve the migrant worker problem. What's their solution? Send everyone back home after cancelling the reason why they're there. Gee, tell me again how sending migrant workers back to a much worse country and position is helping them?

It's not. This thread is just another bandwagon people want to get behind without any understanding of the complexities that the workers themselves face. We did it reddit. [deleted] Countries with large income and wealth inequality rarely take care of their poor. What makes you think those places were humane before they had money?

Even the Caliphs didn't want to have anything to do with Arabia. And yet, the rest of the world is like...

"Hey, you're being pretty dickish!"  

And everyone will let it pass.  And unless something major comes about in the next 7 years, the entire world will be paying top dollar to watch a soccer game, on the backs of the thousands who have died because we ignored slavery. *Just so you know, the other leaders have now heard the grim truth about you!* (NOTE: You are not at war) Serious question though, where did thegaurdian get the information? There doesn't seem to be any sources on the page. In [previous reports](http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/sep/25/revealed-qatars-world-cup-slaves) the Guardian has been on the ground in Qatar. Some of the non-cited claims may be from their own investigations. 

Otherwise they do cite an Amnesty International report which they infuriatingly do not actually provide a link for.

EDIT: Also, they quote the Nepalese labour minister for the major claim of workers not being allowed home. They're quite a reputable news source and have a lot of investigative journalists on the ground all over the world, they're often their own source. They are the source.   They report their own news. qatar 2022

Sponsored by 

[Fifa](http://i.imgur.com/jNmUd4L.png)

[Coke a Cola](http://i.imgur.com/6WHbsFa.png)

[Mc Donald's](http://i.imgur.com/UOqDePx.jpg)

[visa](http://i.imgur.com/l5dsuJV.jpg)

[adidas](http://i.imgur.com/GRgEqCG.jpg)

[Sony](http://i.imgur.com/W5Lrzv5.png)

[Budwiser](http://i.imgur.com/pM6Bcex.png)

[Hyundai](http://i.imgur.com/dnKha3P.jpg)

[use their logos against them](http://i.imgur.com/Oxx56NC.jpg)

 *Coca Cola [Note - Sony dropped their sponsorship of Fifa back in November.](http://www.newsweek.com/sony-drops-fifa-sponsorship-amid-corruption-scandal-288443) [deleted] Yeah. I'd want the world to watch out for Dubai, UAE which is hosting the Expo2020 before these guys and has started their construction and preparation for it. They have so far gone under the radar because lets face it, no one cares for the World Expo. Nothing has been published so far but given the trend of the way workers are treated in the Middle East [and Dubai](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_rights_in_Dubai) and given the really short time frame they currently have to get things running, this can be anticipated if the government doesn't start taking the right steps.  I have worked in both Dubai and Qatar and generally things have improved quite a bit in Dubai. Workers get paid on time, they don't have their passports confiscated, and they are mostly treated fairly (despite what Vice would have you believe).

To give some context, [in 2013 UAE was ranked the top 14th nation in the world for human rights](http://gulfnews.com/news/uae/society/uae-top-for-human-rights-in-arab-countries-1.1244390). Qatar was at 120th in the same index. The two countries are leagues apart in this regard.

That's not to say there aren't still problems to resolve in UAE of course. To put that into perspective, the US ranked 20th that same year. Most people on reddit tend to paint all of the Middle East with the same broad brush. I bet people here think the UAE is as bad as Saudi Arabia in terms of human rights' violation. How is Qatar and FIFA allowed to continue construction after all of the deaths and poor conditions surrounding it? National sovereignty.  One of the cornerstones of modern diplomacy.

 Is anyone surprised? They have actual slaves. Do people not understand slavery anymore? Slaves don't get to go home for a funeral - they're slaves. It's amazing that this fucked up country has the world cup and billions will still watch it and pretend they're not indirectly supporting slave labour in this day and age. For those of you saying you'll boycott the 2022 WC, I'm calling Internet slacktivism. A boycott in 7 years isn't going to save a single worker in Qatar. Boycott now and make it last 7 years. 

Don't buy any more FIFA games. Don't watch any international matches. Write to the sponsors of the WC and tell them you're not going to buy any more of their products until they make their sponsorship contingent reform of Qatar's labor laws. Write to FIFA and tell them the same. 

Honestly, since they're in the process of building these stadiums, and have already sunk a ton of money into them, FIFA has a better chance to get this reform now than they did before construction started. 

Oh and there's a subreddit that started recently: /r/boycottqatarworldcup 

Edit: And if you want to make some noise in the very immediate future, boycott (loudly) the Champions League final in a couple of weeks. If that catches on this becomes a news story *now*, not in 2022. I really don't get it. Qatar is rich as fuck, they have money like crazy. Why ruin your whole reputation by not paying normal/good loans and give people that work for you a good time? That would help your need for a good reputation so much more. Who gives a fuck if you build the highest building in the world if everybody knows you did it on the corpses of worker slaves. Invest those few million dollars more and give your workers good conditions and you will have more friends in the world, more tourists, more good press.

TLDR: Why exploit workers if you have money like hay? And I'm done with all forms of football associated with FIFA. The only football I'm gonna watch is amateur local football matches.
 Countries should boycott the 2022 World Cup while there is still time that is if they care about human rights. Well. Qatar previously involved in human right violation paying labor cheap rates now they are treating human being like shit. They are rich not because of hard work but they are lucky to have oil on their soil. 
  Wow Qatar is a fucked up place. And FIFA is even worse. They know better than to allow this to go on. The main problem with all the ~~middle eastern~~ ~~GCC~~ pea brained countries is the kafala system, or sponsorship system. Basically you are sponsored by a company or a local individual. You are effectively under their responsibility. 

This is nothing but a modern day interpretation of the slave system. The company or the individual basically owns you on paper. Some of them take it too literally. &gt; The main problem with all the middle eastern countries is the kafala system

Fortunately some middle eastern countries have abandoned or revised the system (UAE, Oman, and Kuwait). Hopefully the others will follow. There are 1.5 million workers there?! Good lord.  It's astonishing. They are basically constructing whole cities. The extent of the construction is far more than only the world cup facilities. Screw Qatar, FIFA and anyone who continues to support the organization. Your football thrills are not worth this human suffering. As a co-owner of a company here in Qatar, I did give an option for 2 Nepalese employees to return. They did not want to because they would rather work and make more money to send back home. 

We did raise funds for their families though. 

Please don't think all companies in Qatar treat their employees like what you read in the news. The government is, in my opinion, going in the right direction by trying. It's just some companies that make all of us look bad.  Did you offer to pay for their ticket home?  The cost of flights are offensively high when you earn a pittance.  Very surprised a worker wouldn't take leave if this was the case.  Also do they have vacation leave and if not why not?  Thanks for your questions, 

As per Qatari law, each employee gets 30 days off a year (paid) in addition to that each employee gets a return ticket back to his homeland each year. Now some employees decide on working two years, sometimes three, before taking a vacation in which they would receive their ticket value in cash. 

Edit: forgot to mention that another reason they would stay is to cash in on overtime.  Serious - How much is their pay in US dollars?   We personally don't hire low-skilled workers, but generally in the market they would be paid 1200-1500 as a basic, + housing, +overtime, +food allowance, and obviously transportation is provided. 

I think they use to get paid 800, but they changed that. They are in process of raising it more (as per the government law). 

Also a couple of things to clear out since whenever I see something about Qatar, all the top comments are either: Fuck you Qatar, or Fuck you FIFA or whatever;

1) No It is against the law to hold passports of employees, the latest fine for any passport found at the workplace tops 50,000 QR (14,000 USD) fine per passport
Source: http://www.moi.gov.qa/site/english/news/2014/05/14/32204.html

2) Yes, you do need an exit permit to leave the country, this system is changing though for the better. I am against this system and this system was put in fear of many expats taking out loans and pretty much "stealing" and running away. As funny as this sounds, it did happen in Dubai, They are unfortunately tackling the potential problem in the wrong way. They are fixing this by integrating all systems together (Banks, Police reports, ministry etc..) Don't forget Qatar is relatively a new country with about 15% being Qatari Citizens. They will also remove the whole exit permit system.
Source: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2194633/Luxury-high-performance-cars-left-abandoned-British-expats-fear-jailed-debts.html

Source: http://directorblue.blogspot.com/2009/09/things-are-tough-all-over-luxury-cars.html

Source: http://thepeninsulaqatar.com/news/qatar/301035/qatar-committed-to-removing-exit-permit-system-minister

Sorry for all the typos and grammar, I'm currently at work and typing this in a rush!

Cheers


 They're banking on everyone forgetting this in 7 years time, but if FIFA and Qatar are getting this much press, what's going to come to light in that much time?  Secrets and violations like this don't stay hidden away for that much time.   What companies are sponsoring this event? quatar don't give a fuck, fifa's officials are bribed by quatar, but maybe sponsors don't want to link their name with that mess. Hang on, most people here have failed to make the important distinction between the government of Qatar and the companies that employ these Nepalese workers.

&gt; Nepals labour minister, said: After the earthquake of 25 April, we requested all companies in Qatar to give their Nepalese workers special leave and pay for their air fare home.

How is it the Qatari government's responsibility when not all **construction companies** provided special leave and a few thousand dollars for an airfare to Nepal?  Just curious to hear how much each worker is paid? 700-1200 QR/month,  plus accommodation. That's the general scenario.  That is about 200 - 320 USD right now for the lazy. All the (top) comments are about FIFA and the World Cup but that's really just a footnote. These people are the "working class" in Qatar (and many other similar countries), and they're treated like shit whether they're building WC infrastructure, or highways, or the new Doha metro, or Entertainment City, or any of of thousands of other extravagant projects that rely on cheap/slave/expendable labor to get built. 

Boycotting the World Cup is fine but kind of misdirected; but the real injustice here is vastly bigger and more ingrained in the region.  I wonder if the Nepalese that work on the U.S. Army or Air-force base in Qatar got that leave.

For some reason we never hear people condemning their treatment when its the same people that work in Doha. I wonder if the nepalese workers in Walmart get paid to fly home and attend their families funerals. If not, why isn't there any stories about it? Of all the things I've heard about Qatar this has angered me the most. I don't think ill watch that world cup  Did they also kick their puppies? Jesus, FIFA is turning into a supervillain organization. Qatar a recognized terrorist state They won't let them go because they would never come back again. And who would blame them after seeing the videos of bored rich kids whipping them with electrical cables for amusement? I wont watch the World Cup.  Fuck FIFA, fuck Qatar and fuck the Arab slave trade. Anyone who watches this World Cup or buys the goods of it's corporate sponsors is in a small way supporting this crap.

We have to stop condoning bad behavior just because we like  something it's associated with and "we don't have a choice."

 I really really hope the words best and biggest teams (Germany, Brazil, England(lol)) boycott the tournament.  &gt; world'd biggest teams
&gt; &gt; Brazil
&gt;&gt;&gt; implying


7:1 never forget.  I've travelled to over 70 countries and never have wanted to leave one as bad as when I had layover in Qatar. What a pointless collection of excess; 5 star hotels with nothing to see or do. Fuck you Qatar. Pressure FIFA on this one, you won't get squat out of governments, especially the US. [Our biggest base in the region](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Udeid_Air_Base) is right down the road from Doha, and the government wouldn't risk the lease. Lthe soccer community needs to just step the fuck up and quit being cowards. Refuse to play, don't buy tickets, don't sit there and be complacent in the fact that people are suffering so you can watch a fucking soccer game Tickets go on sale usually less than a year before the cup. Not buying tickets isn't a realistic way to make it stop. "His nation would need even more Nepalese workers as it strives to complete World Cup stadiums and infrastructure in time for 2022."

Fuck. You. Qatar. If you're so desperate to get these things done maybe you should treat your ~~workers~~ slaves like humans. Or maybe the Qataris could get off their lazy asses for once in their fucking lives and start building the stadiums themselves.  That does it.  Going to boycott and not watch World Cup in Qatar.  Shit country. The amount of blind eyes Fifa are turning towards this issue... "If we cover our eyes, it's not there!"

How can people have such little regard over human life? These 'bosses' watch day after day as their slaves (not going to call them workers because in reality, they are not) health and condition deteriorate at a rapid pace, only to not give 2 shits when one dies. I'm sure if one of these cunts lost a relative, they'd stop the world from spinning just to attend their funeral.

As much as I love football, a sport I've watched with awe and played for 3/4 of my life, I won't be tuning in to watch the next few world cups.
Fuck FIFA and their nonchalant attitude. Disgusting subhuman bunch of suits. Qatar,Dubai dont want to loose their slave labor thats why It's called slavery, look it up. seriously shame on Qatar authorities  I am sure that all the athletes will boycott the event in 2022 right?
Right guys?
please? I love how in the /r/arabs subreddit, they're all whining that reddit is being racist for pointing these things out. Fucking hate countries like Qatar and UaE, there rich as fuck but they never help their neighbouring countries get out of wars. Seems like most European teams are just made up of imported foreigners anyway, don't know why people say it's a "national team" when so many players don't even come from the same continent.

You could literally swap jerseys around and fans would still be rooting for the same jersey, winning means nothing, and workers are dying for this football farce.
 Thats cuz this country fucking sucks, and they don't give a fuck, and they know no one will do anything about it I highly doubt that Qatar keeps their passport...Once a migrant enters... that's really it... not saying all the companies, but Labour workers have 0 rights. Lol, and not just Qatar. Being one of the few people that's actually has been to Qatar twice, yeah fuck Qatar. The way to boycott the world cup is for teams refuse to play there rather than people refusing to watch. I'd be happy for England not to play if it meant taking a stand against Qatar and the corruption within FIFA.  More Nepalese workers probably died working in Qatar than from the earthquake.  At this point the only way Qatar and FIFA will lose is if Football Clubs refuse to play.

If they won't bend too publick oppinion, they will bend too the ones playing. Could it possibly be that it's because a huge amount of Nepalese, after being slaves to a bunch of eejits in Qatar, simply won't return? This is the report by investigators from Kroll, an American firm hired to look into the situation. [It's an 84 page pdf.](http://candu.md/files/doc/Kroll_Project%20Tenor_Candu_02.04.15.pdf)  Reading this report is like watching a train wreak in slow motion.

As far as I can tell, Shor Group was running a classic Ponzi scheme from 2012 to 2014. Then thing begin to fall apart, as they always do with those schemes. In a last ditch effort to keep the scheme going, they dropped the more complicated transaction, grabbed the money with both hands and hoped nobody would notice until it was too late. This is just like pissing in your pants during wintertime to keep warm. It works for a few minutes and then your balls turns into ice. 

The question this time is who's balls that are in trouble. I might look like they have paid out the big guys in the scheme and that they are hoping that Moldovan citizens are so used to being ripped off that they wont bother with complaining. Its quite impressive to run a Ponzi scheme with the population of an entire country. Especially if they get away with it, something that might be realistic. After all, a Ponzi scheme keeps giving and giving as long as the big players get paid. Its only when the money begin to dry up at the top that everything falls apart. This time it looks like they have "found" more money and the owner of those money are just "little people". And who listen to "little people", especially in Eastern Europe? This should be the top comment. 

(I am getting used to finding the information I want after the Latvian Potato joke lately) I'm not entirely sure that this PDF is allowed to be shared across the Internet. Anyways, welcome to the NSA list. I'm with you. um... Oops?    

I guess I should try being less good at finding things :&lt; It was published intentionally by someone from the [moldovian parliament](https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=auto&amp;tl=en&amp;js=y&amp;prev=_t&amp;hl=en&amp;ie=UTF-8&amp;u=http%3A%2F%2Fcandu.md%2Fopinii%2Fraportul-kroll%2F) "The money reportedly vanished in a series of murky loans dealt out last November by three major banks  one of them state-owned  to as yet unknown recipients."

"Many Moldovans are mad about all this."

You don't say.  &gt; "Many Moldovans are mad about all this."

First step in the investigation: Question whichever Moldovans aren't mad about it.  [deleted] Did you mean Guantanamo Bay, or am I just dumb? [deleted] the banksters that stole the money Is that like a prankster banker? Gangster banker Moldavians got gangbanked? I think its pronounced "banker gang".  damn it feels good to be a bankster My friends were Peace Corps workers in Moldova about 15-20 years ago. God that country is a messed up place. It seems like their number one export is young girls to the rest of the world as part of the sex trade. Oh, don't worry. Moldova doesn't have a monopoly on that *at all*. Well, at least that keeps the price down And quality up. Competition is good! Uhhh, no. My ISP told me otherwise. ^^^^joking! Comcast: Worse than a Moldovian sex trafficker Can you teach me how to get gold in 10 fucking minutes?

edit: After doing some research on Comcast, I now understand why on p2p I always upload to American IPs at 250kB/s and to European IPs at 6-7 MB/s I hate Comcast I dunno, they aren't so bad for us non-Americans. No Comcast is best Comcast. I too also like free Gold. I mean, hate Comcast. I wish I could tell you.  I feel like I won a really low-payout lottery. 1. Make fun of comcast 
2. Make it in context to current article
3. ?????
4. Profit Talking shit about Comcast can get you gilded pretty quickly. 

Most Redditors woulf love to see Comcast execs drowned in a bathtub full of cat urine. This is a common misconception about Moldova. At one point in the early nineties there were serious sex trafficking issues but the problem has greatly ameliorated. There is still a considerable problem with TIP for non-sex reasons, but the country's sex trafficking reputation is ill deserved and, I think, hinders investment there. But the NGOs that get funding for the issue have a nice base of support from both the Bible thumpers and feminists.  Yeah, pretty much my entire knowledge was of the horror stories from my friends; but they were there in the Peace Corps around 95-ish... it's been 20 years. So I could easily imagine it changing a lot.

The way the described it, moldovan women are especially attractive and more importantly... white. (and of course from an incredibly degraded economy). So the factors were in place to have sex trafficking be a major major issue; at least then.

(oh, and the flip side was that they really really loved their experiences in moldova; loved the people... though much of it was profoundly depressing at the time) Women from that region (Romania, Moldova, Ukraine) are notoriously beautiful. I know in Amsterdam many of the prostitutes come from those countries.  They're not. I'm Romanian and I can tell you they're beautiful because we only let the ones that are pretty get shown in public/media. It's that kind of country. It's like when my Mexican parents watch novelas or the news and every single woman there is a hot as fuck model..even the weather reporter! *ESPECIALLY the weather reporter. Ukrainian lady here. It depends. We definitely take care of ourselves... Being beautiful is more of a cultural value than in the states, I think. Plus we have skin with lots of gold/olive undertones, and often a pretty intense facial structure. Not necessarily the most beautiful in the world, but definitely have features that work on the catwalk.  &gt; "Many Moldovans are mad about all this."

Many Romanians, on the other hand, are slightly wealthier.

"In other news, Romanian GDP increased by $1 billion this year."

heheheheh

shhhhh hell, I'm not Moldovan and I'm mad
 moldovan checking in -- im mad about this!  &gt;The story so far:

&gt;In the beginning the Universe was created.

&gt;This has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move. They played the long con  And many Moldovans died to get us this information... That's $343 per citizen. That'd be like someone stealing [$6312.50](http://www.mybudget360.com/how-much-do-americans-earn-what-is-the-average-us-income/) to $6623.22 (calculated from gross GDP divided by the number of citizens) from **each** citizen in the US.

Providing a range, because neither method I used is necessarily the best for coming up with a precise figure. The second though is more comparable to the parents though. Jokes on them, I don't even HAVE $6312.50! Jokes on you, you'll be sold into slavery! Or redpanther will be stuck paying overdraft fees forever on his negative balance....modern day slavery its like I have to pay to just be broke In all seriousness, being poor is incredibly expensive. I am a capitalist free economy guy all the way through, but if you look at how some companies prey on the poor like those rent a centers and cash checking places it's criminal.  WTF are politicians good for if they can't even look out for the most vulnerable.  

and I don't see a politician on the horizon who gives a damn. Sanders? /r/SandersForPresident
 ... is the only guy in American politics who still has a backbone. Welcome to the circle of poverty. look man, if you had cared about money, you wouldn't be broke in the first place (/s obviously) My roommate was in this vicious cycle of getting paid, overdraft fees, paying bills, getting paid again, paying overdraft fees... On and on. It sucked so bad because I couldn't afford to help him. He finally worked out of it after almost a year.  Should have really stopped using a bank. Paying Walmart $3 to cash his check would have been a lot cheaper than overdraft fees.  I told him, but his job required direct deposit. I told him to switch banks and he wouldn't do that either.  wtf even prepaid cards allow direct deposit. Some of the new ones like amex Serve don't have any fees either. 

There's always going to be a company/bank that provides free direct deposit so that they can get some interest off your money.  Sure you do. Your organs can be harvested. Hopefully you ha e 2 kidneys and one will cover your tab. Maybe you are a rare blood type or something :-) He can live with one lung, half a liver and one arm and leg, if need be. Retina is pretty valuable too IIRC. Well, the article does mention that it would equate to two trillion dollars vanishing in the U.S....

Crazy, right?
http://www.wanttoknow.info/050310pentagontrillionslost

Right...?
 The Iraq war cost is almost twice that, at over $12000 per person. 

http://www.globalresearch.ca/report-3-7-trillion-for-u-s-wars-12-000-per-person/26039 Average monthly salary in Moldova is only about 230$ so that's quite significant. Serious question: How can you steal $1,000,000,000? You can't take it out in cash, because it's far too much money. So you have to bounce it between accounts and assets electronically. Every bounce leaves records which can be followed.

So how do you steal it and get away with it? You get the government to guarantee a series of loans, then take the money and default. Same way you do it in any country. Excuse me, good sir, how do I go about getting the government to secure a loan for me? I'm looking for, ohh just 60-80 million. Not trying to put anybody out. Say you'll build a hospital or motorway. I'll build a hospital or motorway.

So is this direct deposit, or...? Fuck him,  I'll build *two* hospitals. Good luck getting to that hospital without my motorways!  Where is my check?!  You just did business! Sure, just give me your routing and account numbers and we'll get you set Better yet, say you'll build a fiber optic network. Worked for Comcast, TWC, and AT&amp;T. Or just say broadband infrastructure and the govt will just give it to you rather than loan it to you. [deleted] I know you guys can't imagine this, because you live in the USA, and everything goes through lobby and SuperPACS here. But in Moldova (and also other bigger countries like Russia and Ukraine), key figures in the government are also known as "oligarchs". These guys own (stole) probably all the country's resources (in Moldova's case, money, business, trade, foreign aid), and their main goal in life is to devise such schemes, and then employ a  third party (usually a dubious,  maybe foreign, in Moldova's case, also Russian "businessman" who came out of nowhere and rose to prominence) to take out these loans and wire them to off-shore and then Russia. 
You may think this story is fictitious, but in Eastern Europe people are still rather ignorant about democracy, economics, monetary policies, reading books and thinking critically.
They are also rasist, antisemitic and homophobes. But they fear and worship God, and admire Putin's ironfisted assholery. By having the governments help *by being the government Sometimes it *seems* like they're the same thing.. One of the banks is state-owned.  we need to go deeper. [deleted] When you steal 1/8 of an Eastern European country's GDP, wouldn't you be afraid that eventually you'd be having a cocktail in the Cayman Islands and somebody they've hired blows your brains out? I mean, that's act-of-war levels of theft. That's why you plant fake evidence pointing to notorious hacker 4chan.   This, and I'm sure it wasn't just one bank transfer. It was most likely split up, laundered several times, tossed back into bank accounts, bounced around some more, etc. Even if they lost half of it in laundering the money, it's still more than they had before. they probably set up a mod store where they are selling apples in skyrim for $100 ea To steal $1,000 you need a gun. To steal a $1,000,000,000 you need a bank. Give a man a gun and he can rob a bank. Give him a bank and he can rob the world.  How can banks be real when money isn't even real? Almost a legitimate question... To steal a $1,000,000,000,000 you need a war.

 To steal a $1,000,000,000,000,000 you need a Zimbabwe.  You move it into one tax haven and then another and another and then back to the first, using random deposit sizes each time and creating a ton of accounts along the way. Eventually you end up with 3000-5000 bank accounts with ~$50,000-$300,000 each, just small enough to be mostly insured and keep you from gaining too much notice. The investigators track it to the first stop easily enough and are told to get lost, repeatedly. Even if they persist and can squeeze the information out of someone in the first tax haven the money has move around so much by then that its effectively gone. You could even drop a 10-20 million on a patsy somewhere and make sure he takes the fall and kills the investigation. Give the participating banks a respectable cut (spread out to each major player) to keep silent and delete records and you've made it away with $700M-$900M. The bank will have landed a few thousand new accounts (which isn't that many for nine or ten banks in two or three countries) so they'll keep quiet and now all you need is a good password protector and trustworthy VPN to keep things organized and untraceable. Ideally you'll just hire a money manager to keep you one degree removed from most of your money and it will be worth losing another small cut as they will set up a trust or some sort under a fake identity to keep you comfortable and safe for the rest of your days. you... sound like you know an awful lot about this. Nope... this is exactly how someone in a Dan Brown novel or Martin Scorsese movie would do it and is not at all indicative of how structuring/layering transfers works. Want evidence?

". Eventually you end up with 3000-5000 bank accounts with ~$50,000-$300,000 each, just small enough to be **mostly insured**"

Private banks that do this kind of thing do not offer insurance - Because they're smart enough to not fuck around with someone doing this kind of transaction. [deleted] He looked up "money laundering" in the dictionary.

 I can't believe what a nerd he is. He...um...read an article....somewhere...about stuff...yes. *Sound like* is the key phrase here. We found him! We did it reddit! He does...hmmm, but not paragraph structuring. I think it's a clue. The clue is that convolution is key here. This doesn't work anymore unless you're carrying dufflebags of cash onto private jets where the tail numbers in question aren't going to throw red flags.

Fedwire, Swift, as well as smaller currency transfer mechanisms will report the transactions you specified, and structuring will be detected. Even if banks attempted to cooperate with you, your transaction records are available as soon as the money moves between banks.

Most importantly:

&gt; The investigators track it to the first stop easily enough and are told to get lost, repeatedly.

This does not happen anymore, anywhere. Actually, this is only required where there is a criminal allegation, i.e. terrorism, money laundering, theft, etc. not just a civil complaint or tax investigation.  In some of the less reputable jurisdictions, before they will release these records they will demand evidence that there is a criminal indictment / warrant against the account holder which is very difficult where the culprit is unknown and the banks records are needed to find out whom to indict in the first place.

For example, in the Cayman Islands the Proceedes of Criminal Conduct Law (PCCL) only allows the banks to share private banking information if there is an actual allegation of a criminal act and **that criminal act is also a crime in the Cayman Islands**.  As you can well imagine, the Cayman Islands do not have many complex financial regulation or tax laws like larger industrialized countries, so it can be difficult to meet this burden for most financial crimes.

In the Virgin Islands, the Code of Practice requires financial disclosure upon request from the Attorney General, but exempts banks from record-keeping laws if the account holder has a "introduction of business" from a reputable third-party.  Basically, an individual can pay place the funds into an account with a bank in their country, pay their bank to introduce an agent or "straw man" to the Virgin Islands bank, and deposit the funds in the name of the "straw man".  When the authorities request the financial account information for the original wrongdoer, the Virgin Islands bank will have no record of that individual.

Panama and Iran are in almost no compliance with international law and have been threatened several times for failing to comply with anti-money laundering activities.

TL/DR:  There are still several ways for a sophisticated financier to delay or frustrate investigtions in most offshore havens. Of course, even when HSBC got caught laundering cartel money, they got barely a slap on the wrist. My question would be...sure the U.S. government has the both the assets and the international authority/standing to make something like this impossible, but does Moldovia?  I'm also Moldovan,  but studying abroad (Germany). Since the theft happened our national currency lost a lot of value compared to the Euro and USD.  We used to buy 1 euro with around 17 MDL,  after the theft it increased to about 30 MDL for 1 Euro. 
Therefore for parents that earn salaries in MDL it's more and more difficult to support their children if those are abroad. So there's that as well...

EDIT: I had to explain it a lot in the comments below, so I thought I might as well put it here:

A lot of people state that it never went above 21.64 MDL for 1 EUR linking to different charts. That info was, and is correct.
The problem was that if you went to the bank to buy Euros with MDL, you'd get refused. They simply didn't have any Euros in stock. The only alternative was to go to exchange points. Those points would charge you up to 30 MDL for one Euro, sometimes even more (but that was rare). So yes, on paper you have a 21 MDL to 1 EUR course, but in reality, if you actually wanted to buy 1 Euro you had to pay up to 30. It eventually stabilized a bit, but the aftermatch is that we're now at around 20.50 MDL per EUR. 

Hope that clarifies things a bit. On the flipside, sending money home can support more people at home now.  Right? It rarely works that way, as goods get more expensive as well to keep up with the inflation.  It's just your salary doesn't match so you have less effective income, and as /u/Kicker_of_Infants says your money no longer goes as far as it did abroad. Other than the good points Andromeda321 raised, Kicker_of_Infants is a student, and therefore very unlikely to be in much of a position to send any money home The people of Moldova will never see that money again. If their government officials gained from the theft, the perpetrators will never be held accountable. Last I heard, Moldova is a favorite vacation spot for Jon Corzine. Who says you can't mix business and pleasure.  Just saying... There has always been a strong connection between poverty and blatant corruption.
 I am Moldovan and I feel bad about my country Thanks for commenting; I wish we'd hear from some other Moldovans instead of jokes from people who don't even know where Moldova is.  I am 1/8 Moldovan. My great grandfather told stories about fleeing the country in the bad old days. The bad old days were pretty bad. His last name came from a town that was entirely erased some years after he left because Holocaust. Everything I know about Moldova comes from his stories, which means mostly I think of it as the most terrible place in the world, excepting that it had one sympathetic prison guard and very sturdy frozen lakes.

Great grandpa was quite a character. When he fled Moldova, he took his true love with him. It wasn't until some years after he died that we learned his true love was not his wife, and we had another branch of the family that escaped Moldova after he did. &gt;I am 1/8 Moldovan.

Don't lie, did you steal the money? I only stole 1/8 of the money. So he left his wife behind in a town that is wiped out and leaves with the side chick? Daaaaaaaaang.  She also made it out later with their kids, so at least there's that :) At least you have wifi

But seriously overthrow your government. Because that always works. the muslim brotherhood could use another base of operations Sad thing is. Most of Moldova has fiber from my understanding.  How else do they stay regular? Pretty kick ass fiber at that. 1 Gbps at 25-30$ Nothing would change. We've tried that back in 2007. Look where it got us. There is no decent replacement. Th corruption is in the blood of every politician. Do you still live there? We moved to the US when I was 6. Best decision ever. I know very little about Moldova. What makes it a bad place to be besides the obviously shady banks? Oh my god this is why we're always going to be the poorest country in Europe. A *perfect* time to merge with Romania! : )

 So you can be poor together. Misery loves company. Yeeeah, we'll let you know.  you should do an iama for moldova.  I'm gonna guess you're from Chisinau, so that'd be interesting. Macedonia says "Hi" Their GDP is 8 billion if anyone is wondering  Thanks for doing the math /r/theydidtheeasymath /r/itwasalineargraph Shit, I was really hoping this was a thing. Please show your work.  y is the gdp. X is 1,000,000,000 , the amount stolen by ~~the capitalist pig banks~~ unknown dastardly blackguards. Solve for y.

x = y * 1/8

x * 8 = y * 1/8 * 8

x * 8 = y

Edit: THERE YOU GO NERDS. HAPPY? ITS ALL FANCY NOW! GEEZ. FUCK. DAMN.

Edit2: Fuck you blight327. No more edits because I'LL BE DEAD AFTER THIS ONE. BECAUSE YOU'RE KILLING ME REDDIT. YOU'RE REALLY KILLING ME. X looks too much like a variable. Use * next time

F- No commas or currency symbols? A- No units = No points Pretty sure thats a 100 million you've done  But I'm just a genius Damn u whicked smaht Buna seara Reddit!

I was a Peace Corps volunteer just recently (living in a small town as a health volunteer). Moldova is a fantastically beautiful country. Imagine rolling hills filled with sunflowers and vineyards. 

Moldova's main problem is they are tiny player in the middle of a tug-of-war between two giants (Russia and the west). 

Every time Moldova makes a deal with the EU, Russia responds with some extra shitty (but effective) moves:
Ex: Russia blocks their wine sales. (which is a HUGE product for Moldova) 
Ex: Russia supplies Moldova with their gas. A Russian official visited Moldova and told them if they sided with the EU "expect to have a cold winter". WTF.

Also, a lot of the money that Moldova has been getting from the EU is without strings attached (ie not a lot of monitoring and evaluation). What did they expect to happen?! 

Moldova cannot enter the EU (look up the Transnistria stale mate conflict- which Russia is totally in control of right now, trafficking rates, immigration rates, etc), Moldova cannot join with Romania (they don't really want Moldova), and Moldova is completely torn patriotically. You see "Moldova e Romania" (Moldova is Romania) grafittied in the capital. You see Transnistria the break away region. You see Gagauzia an autonomous Turkish (rather proRussia region). Lastly, you have the "Moldovan pride" folks who insist Moldovan (it's in all reality a dialect of Romanian) is it's own language and want to remain a seperate country. 

It's a mess and I couldn't even tell you what will happen with this divided country. &gt; expect to have a cold winter

Things a Russian villain would say in an American action film.  next time you visit i wanna meet you, you seem to be a nice guy!
 Thanks!! I'm a girl actually but I was just there and promised some of my friends in the village I would come back soon ! P.S Bring cash. I remember when I was maybe 7 years old Russia shut the gas off for  about a month or maybe a week I don't remember. It was about 10 degrees in our apartment (I think it was in the fall) and we had to wear our winter jackets inside.  Why is Moldova loaning out an eighth of it's GDP in the first place? Moldovan here. The only fix is to gather them up and do what the Romanians did to Ceausescu back in 89. Though even that wont solve the problem. If you take out the ones in power now, their cousins/brothers/sons/daughters will pick up where they left off. Our government is infested with nepotism. There is no accountability, no fear of the law. I mean, how can you fear the law when you are the law haha? I'm often asked if I would go back. Go back to what? I wish an organisation like The Fraternity existed in real life. Someone to go on a political safari to Moldova. Plenty of targets that deserve a bullet beyond any reasonable doubt. There is no other solution imo.

It's our mentality as a people that hinders our progress. Everyone thinks about today. Nobody thinks about tomorrow. If you're not going to steal it, someone else will, so might as well. It's a cycle that will not brake for generations, esp considering it only got exponentially worse since the 90's.

Rant over.

Edit: grammmmmmar

 Imagine how many track suits that would buy. And BMWs I actually sold my e36 a few years ago to a guy from Moldova wearing a track suit  You could have just said a guy from Moldova. Classic  Shit man I'm so sorry, I feel the pressure when 50 are missing from my pay but 1 billion dollars. I'm sorry guys. No shit! The amount of times i've ran to accounting and pay roll and staffing and anyone involved saying "Listen I've not been paid for like 10 hours. this isn't on. I can't afford blablablablabla"

For such a small country this is mental. It's just sad. The young and smart emigrate for a better life, the older go abroad to work, often illegally and in minimum wage positions, sending money back to their families. Last year, they sent home 1.4 Billion USD, keeping Moldova afloat.
As a side note, if any of you, fellow redditors, are in a position of power, and encounter someone scamming immigrants and not paying them the minimum wage, please, do bring the hammer down on them. I hear stories about honest, hardworking people going to work abroad, hoping to feed their family, and I personally know people like that, and then I hear stories of minimum wages, and "taxes", and unpaid leave, and "test" work(unpaid of corse), and it all just makes my blood boil. 
 Hi Moldovan here, everyone knows who did it, there are many suspicious things about the 3 parties in power, and they so called leader "plahotniuc" There is so much corruption in Moldova it's not even funny. My parents left the country quite a while a go thinking it was pretty bad, but recently it has been getting worse and worse culminating with this. People are protesting, but tbh unless there is a "revolution" Or biiiiig reforms nothing will change.

On a side note Plahotniuc is even monitored by Interpol, and could face legal penalty in the US. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Vladimir Plahotniuc Any solutions here?  This sort of thing is systemic in poor countries.  It rightly scares away investment... which ensures the country will remain poor.  This feels like some hopeless, depressing shit when you begin to calculate the human misery this will inevitably cause. It's that hacker, **FiveChang**, whose stealing their money! I thought he died from net neutering. [Original Article](http://news.yahoo.com/1-billion-disappears-moldova-looks-answers-053120129.html;_ylt=AwrXnCErdkpV5mEAb8HQtDMD;_ylu=X3oDMTByM3V1YTVuBGNvbG8DZ3ExBHBvcwMzBHZ0aWQDBHNlYwNzcg--)
Reported on April 8th. Moldova is so backward that it's biggest news hit Reddit 28 days later. So much for that Front Page of the Internet status. Poor Moldova, pun intended.

edit: hyperlink formatting The news was [posted](https://www.reddit.com/r/europe/comments/31ugws/1_billion_disappears_and_moldova_looks_for_answers/) to  /r/europe on April 8th, but it didn't get much attention back then. Thats nothing, Irish banks stole close to 70 billion about half of our GDP not to long ago, thanks to an inept/corrupt government my children and grandchildren will be still paying for it, while our own taxes went thru roof with services cut. That's that kind of thing that causes a popular and bloody revolution. The economy, the deadliest game humanity plays. No, that would be climate change. Or perhaps nuclear brinksmanship. Nuclear brinksmanship might just be the safest brinksmanship we've played so far. It bought us 70 years without the big important countries fighting each other. It almost bought us [a bit](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cuban_Missile_Crisis) extra.  [More than once](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norwegian_rocket_incident). That's about equivalent to the $2.3 trillion that was "unaccounted" for after 9/11 according to Rumsfeld.

[Rumsfeld says $2.3 TRILLION Missing from Pentagon](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xU4GdHLUHwU) Has Moldova considered reintegration with Romania? I haven't heard. *Please be a nigerian prince e-mail scam, please be a nigerian prince e-mail scam, please be a nigerian prince e-mail scam* That's as many as 12.5%

And that's terrible. classic eastern euope Yup. Every billion stolen turns into 20 billion that never gets invested because nobody wants to see their money disappear. I mean, seriously, it's not even competent corruption. There's more money to be made by running a semi-competent economy, and then just using insider trading to take all the winnings. At least that doesn't completely kill the economy. Some Swordfish type of shit right here. Hey, I thought this sort of stuff only happened with bitcoin and Mt. Gox.  [What that guy was probably thinking.](https://youtu.be/AhuHPhey7D4?t=43s) In Latvia someone stole potato. Was one fourth of GDP. We just looked at other three potato and thought of the long winter ahead. i like how citizens are held responsible for thieving politicians or businessmen This is totally unrelated but the only reason I know of Moldova's existence is because in junior high we got a transfer student from Moldova. She was the most stereotypical sheltered nerdy eastern European farm girl I have ever met in my entire life. Completely plain in every way, even her name, it was Ala. She wore one of those babushka rags on her head and had, what looked like a second hand ankle length dress on most days and a hand made sweater. However she was very good at math, so she's probably doing quite well for herself now. This is all I know of Moldova. My friend, from Moldova and lives in the U.S. now, was talking about the country last night. She said there's three groups of people 1) people who want to be part of Romania. 2) people who want to be part of Russia. And 3) rich people who want to stay independent so they can steal from the state 

I guess it all makes sense now  Did Goldman Sachs do to Moldova what they did to Greece?       
         
TIL: Greece's financial problems stem primarily from doing business, and foolishly trusting, the crooks at Goldman Sachs.  [Source 1](http://www.alternet.org/story/145884/how_the_monsters_at_goldman_sachs_caused_a_greek_tragedy), [Source 2](http://www.spiegel.de/international/europe/greek-debt-crisis-how-goldman-sachs-helped-greece-to-mask-its-true-debt-a-676634.html) To put into perspective how tiny this country is, their country has the GDP ($8 billion) of 14% of Pfizer's annual revenue ($22 billion). For perspective, ONE of THOUSANDS of companies that makes billions per year in the US, makes 8 times more money per year than an entire nation. Holy shit. Putin is about to invade. These guys knew and shipped their cash out Steal 1B from a country everyone flips shit. Spend 700B on war and no one bats an eye. Yeah, just steal from one of the poorest countries in Europe, you greedy piece of shit. I like that the article had to put perspective on a billion dollars, like we shouldn't care about a billion dollars getting stolen if the country were bigger. Damn man, an eighth of Grand Daddy Purp where i live is only worth 35$. Moldova must have that FIRE  My government steals about 33% of our GDP. Dear redditors and others who read this, how would one ask Anonymous to do some doxxing about a number of high profile corrupt politicians from Moldova? 

Here is a starting list:
- Vladimir Plahotniuc 
- Vladimir Filat
- Vladimir Voronin 
- Igor Dodon



Valaris morgulis! 

P. S. Please help by extending the list.  Sounds like amateurs, they could learn a bit from US bankers, they stole way more than that and were rewarded for it. These countries suck. "The money reportedly vanished in a series of murky loans dealt out last November by three major banks  one of them state-owned  to as yet unknown recipients."

They should fine these banks a few million, that will show them! "One last heist, Michael." Somebody probably spent it on Candy Crush. New Details: ["FIFA Vice President Jeffrey Webb - the man many saw as Blatter's preferred successor - one of those arrested in dawn-raid in Zurich"](https://twitter.com/danroan/status/603444025316741120) Very interesting timing on these arrests. FIFA's presidential election is this Friday i hope they get to blatter before then. in fact, i want him arrested making his victory speech mid sentence.  That would be beautiful. Like handing an ice cream to a child and then kicking it out of their hand.  Only if that child was [Damien the Omen](http://imgur.com/TBlbpP0) This is how you get murdered by the antichrist. It's doubtful. A federal indictment isn't handed down easily or quickly. If they didn't indict him now, they likely don't have a case against him yet. Here's hoping one of the indicted will roll over on the entire organization.  Allowed them to catch all the officials in one place and arrest them simultaneously in a country that would be much more likely to extradite them than their home nations. [I love it when a plan comes together] (https://prawnandquartered.files.wordpress.com/2012/12/hannibal1.jpg?w=497) Do you think this will trigger a vote of no confidence in time or only after his re-election? It's going to be a ridiculous and unpredictable election, especially with this story unfolding. There's already been accusations of criminal interference in the election, with [Prince Ali bin al-Hussein claiming someone contacted him guaranteeing 47 votes by Friday](http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/may/26/prince-ali-reports-criminal-approach-offering-47-fifa-votes-information-sepp-blatter). Prince Ali is the only other candidate in the election as of now, and plenty of countries have pled support for him, but as it stands Sepp Blatter is the favorite to win or at least was before this came out Time for a grassroots effort to get Ron Paul elected by write in!! It would be his highest percentage in a presidential election ever! Prince Ali, fabulous he, ali ababwa. Figo pulled out.

He said Fifa was not a democracy. Also corruption. Prince Ali bin al-Hussein also said he was contacted by someone saying they could deliver 47 votes for him on Friday for the right price. This organization is comically corrupt Qatar didn't win their bid because of the truckloads of money they gave to Fifa, they won due to their storied soccer success and culture, obviously. Don't forget the moderate climate! The USA should just submit an application that Death Valley be used as a backup location.  Its a dry heat ^/s Secure that shit Hudson. And their amazingly well-respected labor force!  You have to respect the fact that the workforce are dying to get the job done.  I respect their work ethic. They work like slaves.  It's like they've got no place else to be? No sick days or nothing! They're also so deeply patriotic, it's like nobody can leave.  They'd probably skip their families funerals just to keep working! That's because they are taken care of so well, they never get sick! Top quality safety and healthcare. Khaleesi where are you now?! How has SNL or Key and Peele not done a Qatar/GOT mashup yet? Get your shit together people! Or their pre-existing infrastructure of world class stadiums and transport links. Not to mention their history of cultural acceptance and a free and informed media.  Have you tried the kabobs? Have you heard of their welfare? Once, in the punchline of a joke. you know whats really strange to me? Why hasnt even one player come out and said" guys,we dont play in qatar cause we might fucking die if we have to run 90 mins in the searing desert sun."

Thats the strangest thing.as if they love getting screwed in the  40+ degrees dry desert sun. The WC is in 7 years, why would any player risk the wrath of FIFA now if he has no idea where he will be in 7 years career wise.
Also the senior outspoken  players will no longer be playing anyway. Oh dat sweet dessert sun Where it's sundae every day of the week. And the great atmosphere they will provide surrounding the games, such as 110 degree weather and no alcohol allowed. "Excuse me if this sounds pretentious, but those laws will not work for us. We will serve beer." Inside the stadiums yes. But as far as I'm aware, Quatar is a dry country. So if you don't watch the game inside a stadium, no alcohol for you. I think they said at one point that they will make sure that no alcohol leaves the stadium area, because fans could get arrested. So basically, you are going to get fans trying to get through as much alcohol as possible in a 90 minute period, then spilling out onto the streets completely dehydrated, and either very exuberant, or feeling depressed.

Then you have the local police force, who normally expect people to behave themselves, and have no experience dealing with large crowds. They will also be short handed (Qatar isn't a big country), so will have to draft in temporary staff, or just use the army.

Once those two groups meet up, it will be a bloodbath not to mention this will all be happening in upwards of 110 degree weather. Sounds like a job for the water cannon...
"Hey guys, help me flip this car so they cool us off with that giant super-soaker!" A few years ago, I did a five hour motorcycle ride in 90 degree weather, found my hotel, parked the bike and walked to a restaurant. I had dinner and maybe 3 beers. As soon as I stepped out of the air conditioned bar, it was like someone hit me behind the knees with 2x4. The two block walk to the hotel was like walking in wet concrete. Warm story bro Username checks out, story had food, beer, and bikes.   "maybe 3 beers"

Hah, I've used that line so many times

In all seriousness though I do believe you You can buy alcohol in Qatar at some hotels and restaurants that are in areas where westerners live and there's also one government shop in Doha that sells alcohol so long as you aren't an Arab or muslim. Although they are quite harsh on obvious public intoxication they're okay if you get drunk somewhere private. Well It's probably good that football fans are such sensible, responsible drinkers then. They better be. Qatar also has the death penalty for adultery. Also, you don't want to be gay. No no no. Let's not even talk about the gays. Would be a great opportunity for gay players to get out of the closet.

"Guys, I'm not going! Yes, the dead workers are part of it, but I would also fear for my own safety as a gay man." What a great way for the players to protest. What if all professional soccer players going to play at the world cup just said "Can't go I am gay".  Russia vs Qatar finals That one shop is going to be a bit crowded when 50,000 people come out of a game looking for more booze. My uncle told me a good story about when he was contracted to Libya for oil work (way before all the civil war and stuff).

The local law was that alcohol sale was banned and consumption was only legal for non-muslims. So my uncle and the other westerners kept going into town and buying boxes and boxes of this special yeast powder for babies, as brewing your own beer was the only way to get drunk in Libya.

Anyays the local muslim shopkeepers eventually cottoned on to what the westerns were doing, walked upto them and asked..  
"Hey you guys are using this stuff to make alcohol right?!"

My uncle and the rest were a bit worried about getting in trouble but politely confirmed that they were brewing beer, the arab shopkeeper then looked out into the street for the police, saw there was none, then walked back in and went:

"Nice, well me and my friends have been trying to brew a batch but we can't quite get the right taste, do you guys know any tips?"

Long story short, the local population were secretly getting moonshined along with the westerners. My friends dad used to work quite high up in the kuwaiti government.

He has a bar, as do most of the government officials. 

Bloody rediculous laws.

Edit: I don't live in the middle east myself, just going off photos and first hand stories.  Laws are for peasants. Don't mind the lack of stadiums, hotels or anything infrastructure in the ~~country~~ city. It's practically already there. *wink* Litigation is just the new bribe. This is the U.S. fast-tracking their bid for the 2022 World Cup

EDIT: This was a joke if it was unclear. I forgot to add /s I've read, over the last few months, that FIFA's refusal to send officials to the US to look at sites for 2026 bidding is because of investigations by the Feds. It also came out earlier this week that Sepp Blatter refused to travel to the US for any reason because he was afraid the FBI would take him in for questioning ESPN Radio (I think) had a great story over the weekend laying out just how evil and corrupt FIFA is. There was also an [hour long E:60 special detailing FIFA's corruption](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PP1mZDdAtdE) that was really good; it was on a week or two back. Don't forget John Oliver did right before the Workd Cup began.  [You should link.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DlJEt2KU33I) Damn he's so good at words Someone asked him recently too at a press conference if he wasn't going to the Women's World Cup in Canada because they have an extradition treaty.  Not enough tight shirts and really short shorts.  Could someone explain to me why the U.S. can punish FIFA, and why the swiss government isn't doing it themselves? They broke US law, the money at some point traveled through America. The Swiss are simply cooperating with the American investigation by arresting and extraditing the executives It appears the Swiss have been independently investigating FIFA as well. I imagine every big European government is investigating FIFA.

I'd be amazed if the UK isn't. I wonder how many of them are only doing it to get dirt on Fifa so they have  leverage to get the WC themselves. In UK terms all 4 countries of the UK sit on the International Football Association Board, FIFA's only check against being all powerful in world football. Each have one vote out of the 8 (The other 4 votes being FIFA) and any rule change in international football needs to be passed by it with 75%.

The UK football associations have always had a poor relationship with FIFA not recognising it until 1950. They want sweeping changes at FIFA and have done for decades.

Under a fair system it wouldn't affect Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales applying for a WC, none are likely to ever get it but could get Champions League/Uefa cup or Euro games but there all done through UEFA as opposed to FIFA.

England is the only one that could possibly benefit, but it has no need to bribe it's way, under a fair and transparent system it's likely to get it every 50 years due to it's history as the founding nation of the sport and it's available stadia infrastructure ( the USA, Germany, Brazil etc would benefit in not having to contend with bribes too as the would likely get the tournament under any circumastance).  From what it sounds like, the US is taking the corruption side of the house, Switzerland is investigating the bids for Russia and Qatar. I could be wrong in my interpretation though. The Swiss have today announced that they're launching a full investigation into the voting procedure for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups. Seems like Switzerland and the US have been working together and planning on this for a while. thank you.
 What's that law and why doesn't the EU or other European countries have it? Or did the EU guys just not care? Racketeering, money laundering conspiracy, and wire fraud. Apparently they all occurred in the U.S. as these particular corruption charges concern tournaments that were held in the Americas According to Swiss news papers the Swiss government is investigating FIFA for corruption and money laundering surrounding the 2018/2022 bids. They apparently seized data from their headquarters, so these arrests might just be the start.  The Swiss are also prosecuting right now. It was announced this morning. FIFA press conference live right now. http://www.fifa.com/about-fifa/news/y=2015/m=5/news=press-conference-live-at-11-00-cet-2609064.html The principal target of all these charges is Jeffrey Webb, the head of Concacaf.  His office is in NYC.  Everyone indicted has some relation to the USA. US can extradite anyone they want cos all money at some point is very likely to have gone through america.

One of the most important weapons the US has is the dollar.  If you read the article, the Swiss and USA have a treaty that enables the Swiss to extradite accused criminals to the USA for certain crimes. I'm... actually shocked this happened.  Me too, I don't know much about international soccer but seeing that smug old man sit up there and speak some crap about his manifesto made me really wish someone would smack him off his high horse. Me too. Now if only the feds would do this to bank executives. As much as I don't like our banks.  They aren't as openly corrupt as FIFA officials.

As John Oliver put it, 'I hope they only choose Qatar because of bribes, because there is no other good reason to have the World Cup there'  (off the top of my head, not verbatim) Being the FIFA and all, you can expect Blatter to come out of this unscathed and some lower level execs taking the blame... The charges include racketeering, so they might be bringing a RICO case against FIFA. If so, this is probably just the first wave of arrests. I'm purely speculating here, but I think the DOJ is hoping that they've indicted guys high enough up that they can roll over on Blatter. I can't imagine they indicted lowly guys who would simply take the fall. It also could just be pressuring them to hopefully effect the FIFA vote and pressure the delegates into electing a new president who's less open to corruption I think you're right, they are counting on cutting deals to get the man at the top.  The FBI has a 93% conviction rate so somebodies definitely going to pay.  Though I'm not sure what their success at extradition is. Swiss authorities seem to be completely onboard with the investigation, if they can someone to flip on Blatter I'm 99% sure they can get him to America to stand trial He'll also have few friendly places to hide from extradition [except maybe Qatar](http://www.state.gov/documents/organization/71600.pdf). Edit: PDF But the notion that you could operate as head of FIFA while in hiding from extradition is absurd. So if he does want to go move somewhere he can't be extradited from, he'd almost definitely have to relinquish his post, assuming he wins the election on Friday &gt; But the notion that you could operate as head of FIFA while in hiding from extradition is absurd.

Then again, it's doubtful he'll be able to operate as head of FIFA while in prison.

After decades in FIFA, taking tens of millions in bribes, he probably has enough saved up to live out a cozy life in some country without an extradition treaty. People like that are often too arrogant and obsessed with power to get out while they can.  Think of drug kingpins, etc.   This is Sepp we're talking about. I have no doubt he would move FIFA HQ to Qatar if he had to. Pretty much. They'll offer these guys a deal to snitch on Blatter and other VIPs. And since this likely falls under rico... There some powerful deals to offer.. such as would you like to lose all of your worldly possession, your homes, your cars, your savings accounts basically everything you've ever purchased or been given since you started taking bribes? Or would rather tell us what's what.

 Blatter [right now](http://cdn1.bloguin.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/94/2015/02/107452988-594x356.jpg) &gt; some lower level execs taking the blame...

Leading CONCACAF executives and vice president of FIFA were arrested. Only thing higher you can get are EUFA executives and Sep Blatter himself. the guys who have been arrested aren't low level execs, they're top dogs in CONCACAF. This really could go anywhere Well after all, it was a one-off indiscretion that is counter to FIFA's strict internal anti-corruption guidelines. It's a terrible mistake and we are deeply sorry for its discovery. Oh, this is going to be fun.   
  
  I hope they blow the lid off the Qatar thing and we get to see how much the brass managed to trouser for the bid to be successful. Investigations into FIFA are needed.  Qatar bid winning was probably the most questioned,  but if the US could find proof of Russian corruption,  getting the 2018 World Cup moved would be the most effective sanctions against Russian actions in Ukraine.  I kinda half-laugh, half- lost my breathe at how much of a shit show russia would put up if they moved their world cup out. Prep the submarines. Let's just hope this isn't another thing that FIFA can squirm their way out of.  The FBI has a 93% conviction rate.  The US attorneys don't usually indict unless it's very solid.

http://www.justice.gov/sites/default/files/usao/legacy/2011/09/01/10statrpt.pdf
 What's the conviction rate for people who have shit-tons of money? Most people under investigation for wire fraud and racketeering have shit loads of money.  This is what the FBI does really, really well.   I'd offer up a mitigating factor: the reason we do well against people who have money is because the FBI will work closely with the IRS to identify and seize assets. It's hard to fight Uncle Sam when Uncle Sam has locked up your millions. (The really good lawyers don't work pro bono kids...) I mean, Al Capone was busted for income tax evasion (albeit on a shitty case that most first year law school students could easily defend, but that's another story.)

It'll be interesting to see how the money is tied up here. The standard MO is to kneecap the targets by seizing their assets, I'd like to know how that was done internationally. Actually, in the United States, most states do require that all lawyers barred in that state to do some pro bono work. NY requires 50 hours of Pro Bono work, and NY is where most of the power firms are. 

Source: [Pro Bono Requirement](https://www.nycourts.gov/attorneys/probono/baradmissionreqs.shtml) In a case like this, it would take 50 hours just to figure out the venue.  If there is one thing the Department of Justice likes to do, it's hammer people for racketeering. 

Now if FIFA had a banking arm, they'd be scot free  The DOJ does not fuck around in high profile investigations like this. Those guys are screwed if they can't avoid extradition. Pretty much, I know from my wife's past work with wire fraud investigations (much of which she still can't talk about over a decade later) as well as my work internally over a wire fraud issue the DOJ and FBI are fucking SERIOUS when shit like this comes to play. In our case we were basically talking about maybe 400 dollars and we had like 9 FBI investigators and months of financial and email investigations over the issue as well as subpoenas being served to people who hadn't been working for us in over a year but had previously been involved in the finance department at some time. And they were not even the people being investigated but simply needed to collect more evidence.

The FBI DOES NOT FUCK AROUND with Wire Fraud. Send them to Qatar to help finish building the stadiums! GOOOOOOOOOOOOAAAAAAAAAAAAALLLLLLLLLL!!!!!!!!!! [OH GET FUCKED GET ABSOLUTELY FUCKED!!!](https://instagram.com/p/payLYkoihT/) I move that this man is hired for all sports broadcasting everywhere. Think about the R-rated Little League commentary. I'm sold. Shooter Williamson on YouTube if you wanna see his other stuff (there are more sports commentaries as well)  Like [This](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g_U6yOM3pnw&amp;feature=youtu.be) classic Instagram?  USA to FIFA:

http://assets.sbnation.com/assets/2940945/donovanshades.gif

https://33.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_mchhzlQHHm1r91jfbo1_400.gif Love those US shirts.  [What a hit son. What. A. Hit.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b9AW3RjHjmA) THAT WAS LIQUID FOOTBALL [deleted] The DOJ's extradited like a traction engine -  All arests were handled peacefully.  
-  The charges allege widespread corruption over the past two decades.  
-  Charges include wire fraud, racketeering and money laundering.  -  Prosecutors are planning to unseal an indcitment against 10 more FIFA representatives officials.
-  Looks like CONCACAF is heavily involved in the corruption
-  Most significant case to date for United States Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch
-  She previously served as the United States attorney in Brooklyn, where she supervised the FIFA investigation. &gt; Looks like CONCACAF is heavily involved in the corruption

More like the United States looked into corruption in Concacaf because that was "in" its jurisdiction, giving it more legal grounds for the investigation and subsequent charges.  That and the fact that a former CONCACAF and FIFA Executive Committee member, Chuck Blazer has turned State's witness and is cooperating with the FBI.   Even going so far as wearing a wire while meeting with FIFA officials back in 2012.   You're telling me there is someone named Chuck Blazer and he isn't a weatherman for a local news station? This is all getting very hard to believe.  It's pretty amusing that the FBI is using the same laws (RICO) and tactics (snitches) it used to take down big Mafia with FIFA. If it walks like a duck... Man....if this is the beginning of the end for FIFA and their corrupt ways, im all for it. Im willing to bet Qatar is a catalyst for this. But at the same time im worried this will pose a serious threat to relations with the nation of Qatar as we have a major deployment transient base there, which we pay Qatar to have the privilege to use as a hub. Actually, I doubt it...given Iran, ISIS....a US military base is the best insurance policy that a city state like Qatar can have in the region, for the moment. Sure they may stamp their feet and complain, but they won't throw away their mercenary over a spoiled soccer match. Decision makers in Qatar have probably already skimmed their money from the construction anyways From what I've heard so far in the news, it has nothing to do with Quatar. Its about corruption and money laundring in the US. Which is why the US has any jurisdiction anyways.  Well it's probably more true to say that the shit that went down with Qatar was basically just the catalyst for all of this. It's a longstanding issue, but Qatar just kinda kicked off the shitstorm. [Official Statement from the Swiss Federal Office of Justice](https://www.bj.admin.ch/bj/en/home/aktuell/news/2015/2015-27-05.html)

The website is loading very slowly so here's the text:
&gt;Bern. By order of the Federal Office of Justice (FOJ), six soccer officials were arrested in Zurich today (Wednesday) and detained pending extradition. 
The US authorities suspect them of having received bribes totaling in the USD millions. The six soccer functionaries were arrested today in Zurich by the Zurich Cantonal Police . The FOJs arrest warrants were issued further to a request by the US authorities. The US Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York is investigating these individuals on suspicion of the acceptance of bribes and kick-backs between the early 1990s and the present day. The bribery suspects  representatives of sports media and sports promotion firms  are alleged to have been involved in schemes to make payments to the soccer functionaries  delegates of FIFA (Fdration Internationale de Football Association) and other functionaries of FIFA sub-organizations  totaling more than USD 100 million. In return, it is believed that they received media, marketing, and sponsorship rights in connection with soccer tournaments in Latin America. According to the US request, these crimes were agreed and prepared in the US, and payments were carried out via US banks. The Zurich Cantonal Police will question the detainees today on behalf of the FOJ regarding the US request for their arrest. A simplified procedure will apply for wanted persons who agree to their immediate extradition. The FOJ can immediately approve their extradition to the US and order its execution. However, if a wanted person opposes their extradition, the FOJ will invite the US to submit a formal extradition request within the deadline of 40 days specified in the bilateral extradition treaty.
 &gt; between the early 1990s and the present day

Say what you want about US Federal Law Enforcement but one thing they have in abundance is patience and a very good "memory". man..i wish obama would cut a WWE style promo telling sepp blatter that he's coming for him  [Eh. Close enough.](http://www.lobshots.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/12/HULK.gif) ##HAPPY FIFA DAY EVERYONE Plea deal includes: not placing the USA in the same group as Germany and Ghana next World Cup. I'm proud that Finland will not be participating the world cup in Qatar. Not because we boycott them, but because we couldn't get in. Never even participated, even once. Honestly, as excited as I am to see someone--really anyone--step up to the plate and confront FIFA, I can't help but be disappointed in Blatter's omission from those charged. My only thought is that it could likely be due to insufficient or circumstantial evidence...

Anyway, I think we can all agree that this is the greatest thing to come to Soccer since they made Luis Suarez wear a muzzle. 

Edit: [Close, but no corrupted cigar.] (https://twitter.com/cnnbrk/status/603423288874967040) I'm assuming they'll try and get the executives being arrested today to flip on Sepp Blatter. This should also have interesting implications on the FIFA presidential election this Friday And here I thought Power Plays were reserved for hockey. 

But for real, I'm also wondering what other nations are in on this. I can't imagine the U.S. managed to compile everything and get Switzerland on board alone. I imagine most of the greater allied nations were all in on it somehow, or at the very least aware of it. And the US was chosen to be the lightening rod because 1) The US is one of the largest clients of FIFA in terms of revenue, but also 2) The US isn't huge on soccer, so they don't give a damn about FIFA, so if the organization tries to retaliate, the US really wouldn't care too much. 3) FIFA has very little pull and influence in the USA because, again, the USA doesn't really care about soccer.

I imagine if a company like Spain tried to spearhead this, and through FIFA's great influence they all get off the hook, now Spain would be on FIFA's shit-list. I think this is kind of an important factor. Using the US in this way is convenient for a number of reasons. The potential for retaliation and damage against the US because of it is somewhat minimal, as you yourself said. It also has the potential of being a positive image boost to the image of the US on the international stage. Just look at the comments here, I'd say they are pretty positive and not very many are critical of the US. Essentially there's nothing for the US to really lose by doing this, and quite a lot to gain.  As an American, it's kinda nice seeing the rest of the world pretty much 100% behind something we did.  I haven't seen a negative comment in any of these posts/threads yet.  Even the mega over at /r/soccer. You guys should shackle Blatter on a jeep and tour him through Europe, you'd be welcomed like the GIs in WWII. /r/soccer changed their header to have a picture of Loretta Lynch.

Outstanding.  Just outstanding. Not to mention our DOJ has the means, manpower, and precedent to undertake such a task. We've been doing this sort of public extradition trial for years. The DOJ doesn't bring charges like this on something this visible without a guaranteed win.  93% conviction rate for the FBI.

That's a sexy batting average alright. Ha! The glorious Chinese government turns its nose up at your pathetic 93%. Cower in fear of our mighty [99.93% conviction rate!](http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2014/03/11/china-scored-99-9-percent-conviction-rate-last-year/) Why is it that the Chinese government has no name for their national police or secret sevices? We have the FBI, CIA, the Brits and their MI5 and MI6, Israel's MOSSAD, and more.

But the Chinese? We just refer to them as the "Chinese government" or "Shanghai"   Yeah, exactly. This is something the US is very good at doing.  One of the biggest advantages to trying the case in the United States is the [very strict racketeering law](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Racketeer_Influenced_and_Corrupt_Organizations_Act) originally passed to take on the mafia. While most western countries have an equivalent, the US one is the the best tried and tested. &gt; I imagine if a company like Spain

Our corporate future?  It's such a delicious irony, that the very country that FIFA has most struggled to convert to footballing fandom, could be about to be become the very nation, that ultimately, saves the very premise of a 'global' game. For once, US intervention is most gratefully accepted! If this makes it to trial, I'm concerned the testimony will be drowned out by all the vuvuzelas in the gallery. &gt; It was later revealed by Englands bid chief that four ExCo members had solicited bribes from him for their votes; one asked for $2.5 million, while another, Nicolas Leoz of Paraguay, ***requested a knighthood.***

What the actual fuck?   Loretta Lynch's face is gracing /r/soccer's image stream.  Kicking ass in public relations. About damn time... "The FIFA spokesman said that the case was a welcomed opportunity to clean up the organization, and that the group would cooperate with all inquiries."

Wow.

 I really, really hope this is the beginning of the end for FIFA but PES sucks :(  Haven't played it in a few years, but it used to be fantastic.  Did it go downhill? EA games should make a game based on this. The endless barrage of in-app purchases that are a total rip-off would really add to the realism. Trinidadian here....

Please, please, please god come and take Jack Warner too... Hopefully it's the IOC next! When Europe wakes up to this, it'll be top of the front page. This is their "Bin Laden Caught" It's noon in Eastern European time right now. And the top 3 links in /r/all is this story. Am from the UK. Can confirm i just ran downstairs to tell my parents Like Christmas morning all over again? Mother picks son up and twirls him in the air.  Beautiful.  They finally got Blatt!

If Obama ever runs for president of Europe he's golden, but at least he finally earned that peace prize. People make fun of how football (soccer) is not a thing in the USA. It seems they still managed to do the best thing that happened to football in years. If convicted, those charged are expected to be hired by the NCAA as consultants... Arguably one of the biggest moments in sporting history. Like it or not football dwarfs every other sport and a significant chunk of their governing body just got arrested. Massive news. FINALLY someone had the balls!! Thx America!  No problem!

(Also, it's nice not to be constantly blasted for a change.) I commented on this thread yesterday late at night, practically falling asleep. Today I have read the names.

Fuck you Rafael Esquivel, I hope you rot in prison. He is the president of the Venezuelan Football Federation and has fucked our football over for decades on end.  Owen Gibson tweet yesterday.

https://mobile.twitter.com/owen_g/status/603254016076881920 [**@owen\_g**](https://twitter.com/owen_g/)

&gt; [2015-05-26 17:39 UTC](https://twitter.com/owen_g/status/603254016076881920)

&gt; Every Fifa delegate gets an empty wheely case (Adidas natch). Say no more. [[Attached pic]](http://pbs.twimg.com/media/CF8wVEnUoAEeykc.jpg) [[Imgur rehost]](http://i.imgur.com/ojiaKpR.jpg)

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 Thank you, bot. Awwww I might be able to watch the world cup again!! I hope they topple the entire organization. John Oliver did it yay I'm making an educated guess here but...  
1. I'm sure that this is the result of years of international investigations.  
2. The U.S. was chosen for trial because it has the stronger laws and/or more evidence than Switzerland or another Euro nation.  
3. The U.S. is largely disinterested in soccer, therefore a trial would be less of a distraction as it would be in Europe (possible protests, overbearing journalists, and whatnot).  

I wonder where the pressure to investigate came from, but I am very glad it did. FIFA is just terrible.  One of the best tweets so far  https://twitter.com/AnshelPfeffer/status/603460455323934720
 You know the corruption is legit when the Swiss take a stand.  this is how you fuck corruption in the ass. now do it to our politicians and banks too. Do not forget. Qatar is keeping South Asian workers as slaves.

http://www.motherjones.com/mixed-media/2015/05/world-cup-qatar-nepal-earthquake-soccer When the US takes an interest in soccer on this scale, you know someone fucked up Is the U.S. looking to jail them or just hit them with a fine? What's their GOOOOAAAAALLLLLL??! *clap* *clap* *clap* USA USA USA USA USA USA USA USA! How bad of a fuck up does FIFA have to be for us to actually cheer the FBI? If only they were this hard on those bank execs who fixed the LIBOR rates and robbed the world of billions and billions.... Arrests mean nothing. Convictions and sentencing are what really matter. [Don't worry, rest of the world! We'll clean up your favorite sport!](http://i.imgur.com/ysdPbOo.jpg) Dear World, please arrest all of FIFA. 

Thank You Honestly it just a matter of time, not surprised anymore! &gt;"FIFA welcomes actions that can help contribute to rooting out any wrongdoing in football, the organization said in a statement.

Quick, here comes the bus, better start throwing. God I hope they find a way to arrest Blatter himself. The man is a parasite on football  Why to the US? As a European, fuck FIFA.  Good riddance.  Punishment is... to go build the new stadia in Qatar. THIEFA  As long as the penalties for market manipulation don't outweigh the profits, and as long as those actually responsible walk away without any punishment whatsoever (and fat paychecks, to boot!), this kind of thing will keep happening.

Edit: w00t, gold! Thanks for melting my inbox :-] This is the only question that matters in this whole debate. Does the fine exceed the gains from the crime?

Anything less than 100% is the cost of doing business. Even 100% means that banks still have an incentive to commit crimes, as they won't get caught every time, and get to keep some of their I'll gotten gains. Fines need to be horribly high, like 500% of the ill gotten gains. An interesting way to structure it would be to penalize executive pay directly, just hacking it off the top is going to hurt the company in general, which is controlled by those executives, who have a lot more say in structuring how any loss from penalties will be distributed among the company members. I doubt they're going to do something egregious then punish themselves for it given the choice. The best way is to combine that with jailing the actual people responsible. Lol rich people in jail. I wish these guys were in cemeteries. Amen brother. By hacking it off the top you hurt every investor of the company as well. However - it would need to be in the excess of profits made from the activity to matter.

By inflicting a negative on the profitability of the company. you create incentive for investors to promote following the law when it comes to profiteering. This is realistically, the only way of protecting the general population from the abuse and actions taken by the banks in general.

If you aren't a millionaire, it seems you are treated as a disposable commodity these days. One that foots the bill for everything. Because investors are going to favor say, reducing their own dividends or eating a stock drop as opposed to just cutting low/mid level staff compensation. They're in the same decision-making boat at that level. Their stock actually went up immediately following the ruling. The stock market thought the penalties would be much worse than they actually were! Investment should be more cautiously considered. People need to be held responsible for what they are funding. If there isn't enough information available to make an intelligent decision then perhaps you shouldn't be investing in what may be a criminal organization. Absolutely. When you buy a share you agree to own part of the company and should rightly be fully exposed to both the upside and downside of that. That's absolutely fucking absurd. Owning shares in a company doesn;t mean you have access to information on all it's various operations nor the time to scrutinise every practice. It makes about as much sense as punishing family members of a criminal. Good. Investors should be partly responsible for the wrongdoings of a company.

This would give incentive to invest in lawful and good companies, instead of just the most profitable ones, because the good companies would be the most profitable ones in the long term.

It would also incentivize good companies to be more open about their practices, so that investors could make the right choice. Jail time + fines is the only way to go, if you penalize their pay they will just leave the company
 I am perfectly ok with hacking off the heads of CEOs.  Problem: People deposit their money in the bank. If you are not careful a lot of innocent people will lose their savings. Is that truly justice?

That's why investment banks and commercial banks should always be run separately, as in the past.

Meanwhile these criminals should just be jailed. We're jailing a lot of people for no good reason, so why not jail the people who are actually causing harm when allowed to roam free? Bank deposits are FDIC insured. Only investors, employees (including executives), and people with absolutely massive deposits (over $250k in a single account iirc) could be hurt by bank fines. It's even more than that, because it's $250,000 per account type. So, if you have an individual account; a joint account (wherein both owners are insured for $250k); an IRA; and an informal trust (wherein you're covered up to $250k per beneficiary, and can have up to 5 beneficiaries), you can actually be insured for over $2m.

It's an extraordinary case for someone to not be covered by insurance. If they're not, it's most likely because their institution isn't paying into the FDIC/NCUA, and if that's the case, then it's a pretty small institution and isn't involved in crap like this, anyway. How many people have that much in a bank account? I could see wealthy people keeping $250K in 1-2 accounts as insurance against some unforeseen collapse of the banking system but you'd have to have an immense sum money invested elsewhere to make that a beneficial disbursement of funds.

I can't imagine more than a handful of people who would have more than $250K in one account for more than a few days. However, I can imagine many homeowners end up with more but only for a few days after closing. Not many people at all. I've seen a few keep a little over $1m, but I've never seen a depositor cross the $2m threshold. As you say, it just doesn't make good financial sense (although I do seem to recall that Bank of New York Mellon had accounts that reached those levels a few years ago, and instituted a new maintenance fee to profit off of/discourage it).

Either way, I still think it's worth laying out, as it seems to give people peace of mind to know that the effective insurance limit is much, much higher than they think it is -- so high that there's the slimmest of chances they'll ever reach it.  The fine is not a static number. If banks were to fragrantly commit more crimes as a going concern "because the fine is less than the profit", the fines would be increased until that's not the case, or regulators would break up and shut down the offenders entirely. The regulators and legislators are the ones with the real power -- hence their ability to impose fines in the first place, or pass bills like Glass-Stegall or the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that can limit or even destroy these entities. *There are limits*.

Plus, I'm sure the people going to jail are doing a different kind of calculation than "profit minus fines greater than zero". Yes, people going to jail. There are bankers in both London and the US being criminally prosecuted for their participation in this. The penalties do outweigh the profits in this case though. Relatively speaking the banks didn't make that much on this forex rigging, and in addition to the fine they're going to face harsher regulations and have more attention paid to them (whether or not you think it's enough is another matter). 

The forex rigging was mostly perpetrated by traders who did it to make their job performance seem better. The banks should have had better monitoring for this kind of fraud and their bonus schemes to some extent encourages this kind of behavior as long as you aren't caught, but it's pretty clear in this case that it wasn't ordered by someone high up in the corporate hierarchy. Their chat logs were archived so it's pretty clear what happened, there's no mystery to this case or an elaborate cover up.

This is actually a case where the banks have been quite harshly punished, and the regulators should be praised for their role in this case. It's easy to always scream about the financial industry and often they deserve it, but no one will take you seriously if you scream unconditionally. &gt; but no one will take you seriously if you scream unconditionally.

Why do you hate reddit? Nobody hates reddit more than redditors. how much were the profits? No one really knows. Matt Levine at Bloomberg addressed this question and came up with a reasonable upper bound for citi, and Matt Levine generally writes objectively about these matters. If every day the fraud worked great then their profit would be about $150mln. However we know that traders often complained in chats about how their manipulation failed and how they lost money, so $150mln is really a pretty high estimate. Citi was fined $925mln.

His article is at: http://www.bloombergview.com/articles/2014-11-12/banks-manipulated-foreign-exchange-in-ways-you-can-t-teach

&gt; Citi did some other bad stuff, but that's the only example in the FCA order with an actual profit figure. The CFTC and OCC orders for Citi have no profit figures at all. So we have one case of Citi making $99,000. The FCA order covers conduct over a six-year period, though that might be a bit generous. Figure 250 trading days a year and you get $150 million of profits for Citi if every single day was as "impressive" and "lovely" as the day singled out by the FCA as, one assumes, a particularly egregious example of manipulation. That's not the case: The CFTC order, for instance, recounts a fixing in which "the Citibank trader reported that he was 'hosed.'" The manipulation was not foolproof, and fools abounded. But take $150 million as an upper bound, and Citi paid about an order of magnitude more in fines than it made in manipulative profits. *Thank you*. The amount of scrolling to reach this comment was ridiculous. Thank you.  There's a lot of insanity in this thread...  I literally can't even. Exactly.  Jail the executives. Put the bank under state control, **break it up, and divvy it out**.  Utterly destroy any business that does this and you will see it stop right quick.

E* Bolded the important part too many of you seemed to miss.  Break them up the way you would a monopoly, via state control, and then *give it back to the private sector*. This is what Iceland did after the financial collapse.  As an Icelander, let me be the first to say: For the love of god and all that is holy will you please, just please stop perpetuating that horrid asshole of a myth. Please. Stop. Just stop. Please. Stop using us as a good example of anything at all in relation with the financial collapse. Nothing good came out of the collapse in Iceland. Everything you have heard about how great Iceland is, is about as real as Charlie and the Chocolate factory. Except just less real.

I have no idea why the world chose Iceland to create that fake narrative around. Probably because they needed a hero. And there was indeed a lot of talking at the beginning here, but it wasn't followed through with actions. Almost no one was punished for the crimes that happened here. And first chance they got, The People voted back in a right wing coalition. Iceland is all but bankupt, bankers rule the country once again and most everything is as it was before. But this time we're heading towards a full blown collapse. People are angry and within two weeks, Iceland's private and government sectors are heading for the largest series of strikes since the foundation of the country.

So please. Just stop spreading the myth of how great Iceland is and how well we handled the collapse of the banks, as if it's in the past. You're not helping. We're trying, but so far we've failed. (SRS) How did it go? [deleted] Mark is right- think of two companies, same industry, competitors. 

One takes on large amounts of debt to fund bulk orders of inventory, and then purchase marketing to sell said inventory- they capture large amounts of market share,  

Company B decides to just re-invest profits, without taking on debt, and seek equity investment to fund POs- 

Company B has less market share, and the owner has less equity in his business- Company A has debt. 

If you erase the debt, then company B is punished for being fiscally responsible, and company A crushes them out of existence , because now they just have CASH on their balance sheet, not debt, and they have more market share to boot, and their COGs is lower 

Furthermore- Debt forgiveness would stop anyone from ever loaning anything to business ever- and for good reason. 

If business can't get loans, you lose jobs, tax revenue, innovation, etc Right on, bailing out a company will just make them think they won't need to change their practices... Which is exactly why 'too big to fail' is such a problem. When it comes to the proposition of bailouts, the banks' customers get fucked either way. Deep down I feel like the big banks and their operations are too complex for our politicans and regulators to understand, therefore they are scared of messing with it too much.  They will never admit this publicly.  The simple fact is that they don't want to cause a breakup they don't know how to deal with.     